Skip to main content
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An official website of the United States government

The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.

The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.

Cambiar a español
Search FDIC.gov 
 
 Search
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Updated Guidance: Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management on the Importance of Contingency Funding Plans

 

 
 
 
 Supervisory Guidance

 
 July 28, 2023

 
 
 
 
 Share on Facebook
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Share on X
 
 Share on X
 
 

 
 
 Follow the FDIC on LinkedIn
 
 

 
 
 Share through email
 
 

 
 
 Print
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Summary:

 The events of 2023 have underscored the importance of robust liquidity risk management and
 contingency funding planning. The agencies are issuing this updated guidance to remind
 depository institutions to maintain actionable contingency funding plans that take into
 account a range of possible stress scenarios.

 
 Statement of Applicability:
 
 The contents of, and material referenced in,
 this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions.

 Depository institutions should:

 
 Maintain actionable contingency funding plans that take into account an appropriate
 range of possible stress scenarios.
 

 
 Proactively assess the stability of their funding and maintain a broad range of funding
 sources that can be accessed in adverse circumstances. The agencies encourage depository
 institutions to incorporate the discount window as part of their contingency funding
 arrangements.
 

 
 Be aware of the operational requirements to obtain funding from contingent sources,
 including testing access to contingent funding sources on a regular basis.
 

 
 Ensure that collateral is available for borrowing in an amount appropriate for potential
 contingency funding needs. Additionally, depository institutions should plan for
 potential operational challenges involved in moving and posting collateral.
 

 
 Review and revise contingency funding plans periodically and more frequently as market
 conditions and strategic initiatives change in order to address evolving liquidity
 risks.
 

 
 
 
 FIL-39-2023

 Attachment(s)

 
 
 https://www.fdic.gov/news/financial-institution-letters/2010/fil10013.html

 
 
 
 
 
 Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of Contingency Funding Plans

 

 Related Topics

 
 
 Capital Markets

 

 Contact(s)

 
 
 
 
 Division of Risk Management Supervision
 

 

 

 

 
 
 Last Updated: July 28, 2023

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CONTACT THE FDIC
CONTACT US

 

 
 
 
 
 STAY INFORMED
 Enter your email address 
 Subscribe 
Follow the FDIC on Facebook
Follow the FDIC on XShare on X
Follow the FDIC on Instagram
Follow the FDIC on LinkedIn
Follow the FDIC on YouTube

 

 
 
 HOW CAN WE HELP YOU? 
About you
 

 

 
 I am a ...
 Bank Customer
 Banker
 Consumer
 Small Business Owner
 Analyst/Researcher/Student
 Legal Professional
 Bank Regulator
 Press/Media
 Vendor/Contractor
 Legislative Staff Member
 Jobseeker
 Court Clerk
 Prosecutor/Probation Officer
 Investigator
 

 

 
 
 

Your request
 

 

 
 I want to...