1 
 
Acting Comptroller of the Currency Michael J. Hsu 
“Building Better Brakes for a Faster Financial World” 
Columbia Law School  
January 18, 2024 
 
It is an honor and a pleasure to be here at Columbia. I want to especially thank Professor 
Lev Menand for hosting this event. 
Today, I would like to talk about bank liquidity risk. With the one-year anniversary of 
last year’s large bank failures fast approaching, it is a good time to reflect on lessons learned and 
to discuss how best to ensure the safety and soundness of the banking system going forward. 
The characteristics of bank runs are changing. Banks and regulators need to adapt 
accordingly. As the speed of banking and finance accelerates, so too does the need for better 
brakes to enable a safe and sound system. Some adaptation has already taken place through 
supervision on an individual bank-by-bank basis. Careful consideration also needs to be given, 
however, to targeted regulatory enhancements to help ensure that updated liquidity risk 
management practices are implemented and sustained systematically and consistently, especially 
across midsize and large banks. 
I will start by reflecting on the events of last year and sharing preliminary thoughts on the 
contours of what targeted regulatory enhancements might look like. I will then close with some 
thoughts on how the adoption of faster payments and tokenization may impact liquidity risk 
management in the future. 
 

2 
 
Lessons learned 
The failures of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) and Signature Bank last year highlighted three 
vulnerabilities that had been underappreciated: 
• First, uninsured deposits can be withdrawn quickly en masse. 
• Second, having liquid assets is necessary but not sufficient for banks to endure acute 
liquidity stress. Banks also need to be adequately prepared and have the operational 
capacity to monetize those assets quickly. 
• Third, contagion to healthy banks does not require interconnectedness and direct 
exposure to a failing bank. Systemic threats can occur via “guilt by association,” i.e., 
shared uncertainty with regards to seemingly similar risk profiles, such as high 
reliance on uninsured deposits for funding. 
Before diving into each of these, some context is helpful. Uninsured deposits in aggregate 
have grown considerably since 2009. The FDIC reported in May 2023 that uninsured domestic 
deposits increased at an annualized rate of nearly 10 percent, from $2.3 trillion in 2009 to $7.7 
trillion in 2022.
1 The FDIC’s report also showed that an increasing number of banks are relying 
on uninsured deposits. Over the same period, online and mobile banking has become ubiquitous, 
enabling depositors to place and withdraw deposits more quickly and easily. And the 
decentralization and faster dissemination of information associated with the rise of social media 
platforms has also had an impact on financial markets. 
 
1 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, “Options For Deposit Insurance Reform” (May 1, 2023) 

3 
 
1. Recognizing the speed and severity of certain outflows 
The combination of these developments significantly increased the liquidity risk of banks 
with uninsured deposits. As we saw with SVB, a run by uninsured depositors can occur much 
faster and be substantially more severe than bank runs of the past. On March 9, SVB endured 
over $40 billion of outflows—roughly 25% of its total uninsured deposits—on a single day. By 
contrast, in 2008 Wachovia lost $10 billion of deposits over eight days and Washington Mutual 
lost $19 billion over 16 days.2 
Of course, not all uninsured deposits are created equal. SVB’s depositors were highly 
networked. The vast majority of them were startup technology companies, many of whom knew 
each other personally and interacted frequently. They relied on the same small group of venture 
capital investors for funding, advice, and counsel. In short, the conditions were ripe for herd 
behavior.
3 
Herding is not limited to venture capital and technology start-ups. In 2008, hedge funds 
acted as a herd, running en masse from prime brokers like Bear Stearns, Morgan Stanley, and 
Goldman Sachs. Last March, crypto companies ran en masse from Silvergate Bank and 
Signature. Shortly after, high net worth individuals withdrew their funds en masse from Credit 
Suisse. 
From a liquidity risk management perspective, it is important to identify ex ante where 
such herding might occur. Prudently categorizing such deposits and applying appropriately high 
stress outflow rates is one way to do this. The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), for instance, 
 
2 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Review of the Federal Reserve’s Supervision and Regulation 
of Silicon Valley Bank ( April 28, 2023).  
 
3 Wall Street Journal, How Silicon Valley Turned on Silicon Valley Bank (March 12, 2023). 

4 
 
requires large banks to hold high quality liquid assets sufficient to meet stressed liquidity 
outflows over a 30-day period. The outflow rates for wholesale funding from financial 
institutions are high, reflecting the “runnability” of those counterparties. By contrast, the outflow 
rate for retail demand deposits is low—10%—reflecting their stickiness. One problem 
highlighted by the failures of SVB, Signature, and Credit Suisse, is that some high-risk deposits, 
including uninsured deposits, are categorized as “retail demand deposits” for LCR purposes, 
resulting in an under-calibration of risk. Better classifying higher risk deposits to better capture 
the heightened risk of herding and applying the appropriate outflow rate could help address this 
risk more effectively. 
2. Ensuring the ability to monetize 
The faster pace of bank runs is another change that banks and regulators must adapt to. 
When massive outflows can occur over hours and days instead of weeks, it isn’t enough for a 
bank to have a sufficient quantity of liquid assets on hand. Banks also must be able to monetize 
those assets—i.e., convert them into cash—in a timely manner with a high degree of confidence. 
Otherwise, the liquidity value of those assets for the risks they are meant to cover is illusory. 
Banks have two market-based options for monetizing assets: sales and repo. To avoid fire 
sale dynamics, banks typically focus on repo. In acute stress scenarios, however, repo may not 
provide sufficient amounts of liquidity fast enough. Prudent liquidity risk management should 
consider constraints on the speed and ability to repo substantial amounts of such assets over time. 

5 
 
Of course, the Federal Reserve has the capacity to provide large amounts of liquidity 
nearly instantaneously via the discount window.4 Bank utilization of the Federal Reserve’s 
discount window faces two hurdles, however. The first is operational. Without proper 
preparation, monetizing assets can take time. When depositors can make withdrawals with just a 
few taps of the finger or clicks of the mouse, the window for action is quite small. This timing 
risk can be mitigated by banks identifying ex ante the assets that will be pledged to the discount 
window as collateral and pre-positioning them accordingly. In addition, periodically borrowing 
from the discount window can help ensure that banks are capable and operationally familiar with 
what it takes to borrow from the Federal Reserve in case of stress. 
The second hurdle to discount window borrowing is stigma. Since the 2008 financial 
crisis, banks have worried that news of their borrowing from the discount window could be 
perceived as a sign of weakness, thereby exacerbating a run. As such, many banks believe that in 
stress they will face a Hobson’s choice: the option of borrowing from the discount window is not 
a real one in practice. 
This increasingly matters for OCC-supervised banks. Midsize and large banks supervised 
by the OCC have over $12 trillion in deposits, of which $4.8 trillion, or 40%, are uninsured. 
Increases in the potential size and speed of liquidity outflows at OCC-supervised banks 
heightens their vulnerability to discount window stigma. 
One solution would be to explicitly give banks credit for their discount window 
borrowing capacity to cover ultra-short term, acute outflows like those endured by SVB and 
 
4 Remarks by Vice Chair for Supervision Michael S. Barr, The Importance of Effective Liquidity Risk Management 
(December 1, 2023). It is worth recalling Walter Bagehot’s dictum, from his 1873 book, Lombard Street: A 
Description of the Money Market: to avert panic, central banks should lend early and freely, to solvent firms, against 
good collateral, and at "high” rates. 

6 
 
Signature. This would make clear that regulators expect banks in stress to utilize the discount 
window to help cover short term liquidity outflows when needed. This regulatory expectation 
could help de-stigmatize discount window usage. 
Some have argued for adopting this approach within the LCR by adding discount window 
capacity to the numerator and expanding the sources of liquidity beyond high quality liquid 
assets (HQLA). That would be dangerous. I believe it is more appropriate and prudent to take a 
narrower approach and limit discount window credit to covering only acute, ultra-short-term 
outflows—up to, say, five days—through a new, targeted liquidity requirement. 
In short, I believe a new targeted regulatory requirement for midsize and large banks to 
have sufficient liquidity to cover stress outflows over a five-day period warrants serious 
consideration. The denominator should consider the potential speed and severity of uninsured 
deposit outflows, while the numerator should consider the liquidity value of pre-positioned 
discount window collateral, in addition to reserves. The rule should also clarify operational 
preparedness expectations related to the discount window, perhaps even including a requirement 
to do periodic test draws. 
Predictability and repeatability are critical to consider. With an ultra-short-time horizon 
and with pre-positioned collateral, banks, regulators, and market participants can be fairly 
confident that the Federal Reserve will make discount window liquidity available in a timely 
manner as needed. That confidence declines the longer the time horizon and if the collateral is 
not pre-positioned, as there is then more room for counterparties and functional regulators to 
question whether the central bank will, in fact, provide and/or maintain liquidity support. 

7 
 
While de-stigmatizing appropriate discount window usage is imperative, it is equally 
important to minimize the risk of inappropriate discount window over-reliance. The line 
between being a lender of last resort and providing a bailout can be a fine one, especially in 
stress. Adopting a separate liquidity requirement for ultra-short-term outflows could provide a 
safe space for appropriate discount window usage, while maintaining a credible stance against 
bailouts in longer-term stress scenarios. In short, the adoption of a new, well-crafted regulatory 
requirement could help de-stigmatize the discount window while maintaining the anti-bailout 
conservatism of existing liquidity regulations. 
3. Limiting guilt by association 
The contagion risk from the failures of SVB and Signature is worth unpacking because it 
differs from prior contagion events. 
In the 2008 financial crisis, the risk of contagion stemmed from uncertainty about the 
extent to which losses might be transmitted across the financial system through 
interconnectedness. When Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, no one 
knew who had exposure and might bear outsized losses. The so-called “breaking of the buck” at 
the Reserve Fund, a money market mutual fund that held Lehman commercial paper, was 
shocking and triggered broader market panic because it made the fear of interconnectedness very 
real. The extraordinary government support to AIG several days later was provided out of a 
similar concern about the financial system’s exposure and interconnectedness to that distressed 
company. A couple of years later in Europe, the prospect of sovereign debt defaults by Greece 
and other countries fed contagion and financial stability fears based on similar concerns. 

8 
 
By contrast, the contagion risk from the failures of SVB and Signature was not due to 
interconnectedness, but rather a fear that uninsured depositors at any bank could be at risk. While 
the customer profiles of the uninsured deposits at SVB and Signature were understood to be 
fairly unique, market participants did not have the means to quickly and credibly differentiate the 
behavior of uninsured deposits at other banks. In other words, there was “guilt by association,” 
casting doubt on the uninsured deposits held by a wide swath of banks, which threatened to 
destabilize the broader banking system. 
The long-term solution is to credibly contain the scope of association. For instance, most 
would agree that the portion of uninsured deposits representing excess funds has a riskier 
liquidity profile than the portion used to fulfill specific business purposes (e.g., meeting payroll 
or paying suppliers). This is the distinction between so-called “non-operational” and 
“operational” deposits. Banks define these differently, however, in part because their customers 
and business models vary enormously, and there is no standardized classification system that 
market participants can see and trust. On top of that, the deposit landscape has been evolving and 
shows no signs of settling down—for example, the rise of banking-as-a-service, rapid growth in 
reciprocal deposits, and innovations in payments and treasury services. 
To get a better handle on this, in June the OCC will host an economics symposium for 
invited academic and government researchers on deposit gathering, franchises, and risk profiles.5 
Our hope is that focusing on this may contribute to efforts to credibly classify and differentiate 
 
5 See OCC News Release 2023-131, “OCC Solicits Research on Depositor Behavior, Bank Liquidity, and Run 
Risk.” 
 

9 
 
deposit types, which may help contain the scope of any “guilt by association” and thus help 
mitigate contagion risk in the future. 
 
Preparing for an even faster future 
 Before I conclude, I want to say a few words about liquidity risk in the future. 
In the U.S., as we transition towards a faster payments system and possibly tokenization 
of real-world assets and liabilities6, banks may need to further enhance their liquidity risk 
management capabilities to keep up. 
Historically, banking has proceeded in daily increments. Bank tellers balanced their 
books and cash positions were reconciled at the end of each day. Around this daily cycle arose 
batch processes, whereby inflows and outflows over the course of a day could be netted, 
managing the amount of funds flowing throughout the system and providing opportunities to 
correct mistakes. Many banks still operate this way today. 
The future looks different. The time increments are shrinking towards “always on,” 
24/7/365. Instant payments systems are becoming the norm abroad, for instance in the UK, 
Brazil, India, Singapore, Thailand, and others, as well as domestically.
7 
The Federal Reserve’s FedNow service is a real-time, inter-bank, 24/7/365 gross 
settlement payment system. With FedNow financial institutions can settle payment transactions 
 
6 See OCC News Release 2023-114, “OCC to Host Symposium on the Tokenization of Real-World Assets and 
Liabilities.” 
 
7 See Pay.UK Limited, “Faster Payment System,” Banco Central Do Brasil, “What is Pix,” EBANX, “Unified 
Payments Interface (UPI): The Instant Payment that Reshaped India’s Financial Landscape,”  a nd Bank of Thailand, 
“PromptPay.” 
 

10 
 
any time, including nights, weekends, and holidays. In addition, to the extent tokenization 
reduces settlement frictions, it will also accelerate the velocity of banking and finance. 
This creates the potential for great benefits, including improving financial inclusion and 
financial health for many people.8 
But a future of faster, always on, real-time money flows also creates new risks. Faster 
payments can lead to faster fraud and limit the ability to remediate erroneous transactions. The 
instantaneous nature of real-time payments necessitates enhanced liquidity risk management, 
third-party risk management, and fraud and compliance risk management. 
As the speed of payments accelerates, we need to think carefully about the associated 
risks and controls. Banks and regulators should start working now on building the right brakes 
for a more real-time financial system. 
 
Conclusion 
I want to conclude where I started: The characteristics of bank runs are changing, and 
banks and regulators need to adapt accordingly. We need to develop better brakes to keep banks 
safe and sound and to mitigate systemic risk. I believe it is possible to take a targeted regulatory 
approach to address the lessons from the failures of SVB and Signature. I look forward to 
working with my interagency peers, banks, academics, and other stakeholders on this important 
task. 
 
8 See Aaron Klein, “Real-time payments can help combat inequality,” (March 6, 2019), and Jean Pesme, “Fast 
payments offer potential for faster digital financial inclusion and faster growth ” ( September 28, 2023).