VerDate jul<14>2003 21:13 Dec 13, 2004 Jkt 205001 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\14DER1.SGM 14DER1
Federal Register / Vol. 69, No. 239 / Tuesday, December 14, 2004 / Rules and Regulations 74439 
outlined in the ‘‘Recording and Coding 
Guide for the Structure Inventory and 
Appraisal of the Nation’s Bridges.’’ 
(b) For routine, in-depth, fracture 
critical member, underwater, damage 
and special inspections enter the SI&A 
data into the State or Federal agency 
inventory within 90 days of the date of 
inspection for State or Federal agency 
bridges and within 180 days of the date 
of inspection for all other bridges. 
(c) For existing bridge modifications 
that alter previously recorded data and 
for new bridges, enter the SI&A data 
into the State or Federal agency 
inventory within 90 days after the 
completion of the work for State or 
Federal agency bridges and within 180 
days after the completion of the work 
for all other bridges. 
(d) For changes in load restriction or 
closure status, enter the SI&A data into 
the State or Federal agency inventory 
within 90 days after the change in status 
of the structure for State or Federal 
agency bridges and within 180 days 
after the change in status of the 
structure for all other bridges. 
§ 650.317 Reference manuals. 
(a) The materials listed in this subpart 
are incorporated by reference in the 
corresponding sections noted. These 
incorporations by reference were 
approved by the Director of the Federal 
Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 
552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These 
materials are incorporated as they exist 
on the date of the approval, and notice 
of any change in these documents will 
be published in the Federal Register. 
The materials are available for purchase 
at the address listed below, and are 
available for inspection at the National 
Archives and Records Administration 
(NARA). These materials may also be 
reviewed at the Department of 
Transportation Library, 400 Seventh 
Street, SW., Washington, DC, in Room 
2200. For information on the availability 
of these materials at NARA call (202) 
741–6030, or go to the following URL: 
http://www.archives.gov/ 
federal_register/ 
code_of_federal_regulations/ 
ibr_locations.html. In the event there is 
a conflict between the standards in this 
subpart and any of these materials, the 
standards in this subpart will apply. 
(b) The following materials are 
available for purchase from the 
American Association of State Highway 
and Transportation Officials, Suite 249, 
444 N. Capitol Street, NW., Washington, 
DC 20001. The materials may also be 
ordered via the AASHTO bookstore 
located at the following URL: http:// 
www.aashto.org/aashto/home.nsf/ 
FrontPage. 
(1) The Manual for Condition 
Evaluation of Bridges, 1994, second 
edition, as amended by the 1995, 1996, 
1998, and 2000 interim revisions, 
AASHTO, incorporation by reference 
approved for §§ 650.305 and 650.313. 
(2) 2001 Interim Revision to the 
Manual for Condition Evaluation of 
Bridges, AASHTO, incorporation by 
reference approved for §§ 650.305 and 
650.313. 
(3) 2003 Interim Revision to the 
Manual for Condition Evaluation of 
Bridges, AASHTO, incorporation by 
reference approved for §§ 650.305 and 
650.313. 
[FR Doc. 04–27355 Filed 12–13–04; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 4910–22–P 
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 
31 CFR Part 103 
Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network; Interpretive Release 2004–1— 
Anti-Money Laundering Program 
Requirements for Money Services 
Businesses With Respect to Foreign 
Agents or Foreign Counterparties 
AGENCY: Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network (FinCEN), Treasury. 
ACTION: Final rule; interpretive release. 
SUMMARY: This Interpretive Release sets 
forth an interpretation of the regulation 
requiring Money Services Businesses 
that are required to register with 
FinCEN to establish and maintain anti-
money laundering programs. 
Specifically, this Interpretive Release 
clarifies that the anti-money laundering 
program regulation requires such Money 
Services Businesses to establish 
adequate and appropriate policies, 
procedures and controls commensurate 
with the risk of money laundering and 
the financing of terrorism posed by their 
relationship with foreign agents or 
foreign counterparties of the Money 
Services Business. 
DATES: Effective June 13, 2005. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : 
Office of Regulatory Policy and 
Programs Division, 1–800–800–2877, 
Office of Chief Counsel (703) 905–3590 
(not a toll free number). 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 
5318(h) of the Bank Secrecy Act, which 
is codified in subchapter II of chapter 53 
of title 31, United States Code, requires 
every financial institution to establish 
an anti-money laundering program. The 
Bank Secrecy Act regulations define 
financial institution to include money 
service businesses. On April 29, 2002, 
FinCEN issued interim final rules-31 
CFR 103.125-concerning the application 
of the anti-money laundering program 
requirement to money services 
businesses. 67 FR 21114. 
List of Subjects in 31 CFR Part 103 
Authority delegations (government 
agencies), bank, banking, currency, 
investigations, reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements. 
Department of the Treasury 
31 CFR Chapter I 
Authority and Issuance 
 For the reasons set forth in the 
preamble, part 103 of title 31 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations is amended as 
follows: 
PART 103—FINANCIAL 
RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING 
OF CURRENCY AND FOREIGN 
TRANSACTIONS 
 1. The authority citation for part 103 
continues to read as follows: 
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951–1959: 
31 U.S.C 5311–5314 and 5316–5332; title III, 
secs. 312, 313, 314, 319, 326, 352, Pub. L. 
107–56, 115 Stat. 307, 12 U.S.C. 1786(q). 
 2. Part 103 is amended by adding a 
new appendix C to read as follows: 
APPENDIX C TO PART 103— 
INTERPRETIVE RULES 
Release No. 2004–01 
This Interpretive Guidance sets forth our 
interpretation of the regulation requiring 
Money Services Businesses that are required 
to register with FinCEN to establish and 
maintain anti-money laundering programs. 
See 31 CFR 103.125. Specifically, this 
Interpretive Guidance clarifies that the anti-
money laundering program regulation 
requires Money Services Businesses to 
establish adequate and appropriate policies, 
procedures, and controls commensurate with 
the risks of money laundering and the 
financing of terrorism posed by their 
relationship with foreign agents or foreign 
counterparties of the Money Services 
Business.
1 
Under existing Bank Secrecy Act 
regulations, we have defined Money Services 
Businesses to include five distinct types of 
financial services providers and the U.S. 
Postal Service: (1) Currency dealers or 
exchangers; (2) check cashers; (3) issuers of 
traveler’s checks, money orders, or stored 
1 This Interpretive Guidance focuses on the need 
to control risks arising out of the relationship 
between a Money Service Business and its foreign 
counterparty or agent. Under existing FinCEN 
regulations, only Money Service Business 
principals are required to register with FinCEN, and 
only Money Service Business principals establish 
the counterparty or agency relationships. 31 CFR 
103.41. Accordingly, this Interpretive Guidance 
only applies to those Money Service Businesses 
required to register with FinCEN, that is, only those 
Money Service Businesses that may have a 
relationship with a foreign agent or counterparty. 

 
VerDate jul<14>2003 21:13 Dec 13, 2004 Jkt 205001 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\14DER1.SGM 14DER1
74440 Federal Register / Vol. 69, No. 239 / Tuesday, December 14, 2004 / Rules and Regulations 
value; (4) sellers or redeemers of traveler’s 
checks, money orders, or stored value; and 
(5) money transmitters. See 31 CFR 
103.11(uu). With limited exception, Money 
Services Businesses are subject to the full 
range of Bank Secrecy Act regulatory 
controls, including the anti-money 
laundering program rule, suspicious activity 
and currency transaction reporting rules, and 
various other identification and 
recordkeeping rules.
2 
Many Money Services Businesses, 
including the vast majority of money 
transmitters in the United States, operate 
through a system of agents both domestically 
and internationally. We estimate that a 
substantial majority of all cross-border 
remittances by money transmitters are 
conducted using this model. Other Money 
Services Businesses may operate through 
more informal relationships, such as the 
trust-based hawala system.
3 Regardless of the 
form of the relationship between a Money 
Services Business and its foreign agents or 
counterparties, Money Services Business 
transactions generally are initiated by 
customers seeking to send or receive funds, 
cash checks, buy or sell money orders or 
traveler’s checks, or buy or sell currency. The 
customer directs the Money Services 
Business to execute the transactions; the 
Money Services Business does not 
unilaterally determine the recipient of its 
products or services. Although the customer 
can use the Money Services Business’ 
services, the customer does not typically 
establish an account relationship with the 
Money Services Business. The focus of this 
Interpretive Guidance is the establishment of, 
and ongoing relationship between, a Money 
Services Business and its foreign agent or 
foreign counterparty that facilitates the flow 
of funds cross-border into and out of the 
United States on behalf of customers. 
The Cross-Border Flow of Funds through 
Money Services Businesses and Associated 
Risks 
Ensuring that financial institutions based 
in the United States establish and apply 
adequate and appropriate policies, 
2 See 31 CFR 103.125 (requirement for Money 
Service Businesses to establish and maintain an 
anti-money laundering compliance program); 31 
CFR 103.22 (requirement for Money Service 
Businesses to file currency transaction reports); 31 
CFR 103.20 (requirement for Money Service 
Businesses, other than check cashers and issuers, 
sellers, or redeemers of stored value, to file 
suspicious activity reports); 31 CFR 103.29 
(requirement for Money Service Businesses that sell 
money orders, traveler’s checks, or other 
instruments for cash to verify the identity of the 
customer and create and maintain a record of each 
cash purchase between $3,000 and $10,000, 
inclusive); 31 CFR 103.33(f) (requirement for Money 
Service Businesses that send or accept instructions 
to transmit funds of $3,000 or more to verify the 
identity of the sender or receiver and create and 
maintain a record of the transmittal regardless of 
the method of payment); and 31 CFR 103.37 
(requirement for currency exchangers to create and 
maintain a record of each exchange of currency in 
excess of $1,000). 
3 For an analysis of informal value transfer 
systems, see FinCEN’s Report to Congress Pursuant 
to Section 359 of the Patriot Act, available on 
www.fincen.gov. 
procedures, and controls in their anti-money 
laundering compliance programs to protect 
the international gateways to the U.S. 
financial system is an essential element of 
the Bank Secrecy Act regulatory regime. This 
Interpretive Guidance forms a part of our 
comprehensive approach to accomplishing 
this goal. To the extent Money Services 
Businesses utilize relationships with foreign 
agents or counterparties to facilitate the 
movement of funds into or out of the United 
States, they must take reasonable steps to 
guard against the flow of illicit funds, or the 
flow of funds from legitimate sources to 
persons seeking to use those funds for illicit 
purposes, through such relationships. 
The money laundering or terrorism 
financing risks associated with foreign agents 
or counterparties are similar to the risks 
presented by domestic agents of Money 
Services Businesses. For example, the foreign 
agent of the domestic Money Services 
Business may have lax anti-money 
laundering policies, procedures, and internal 
controls, or actually may be complicit with 
those seeking to move illicit funds. In some 
instances, the risk with foreign agents can be 
greater than with domestic agents because 
foreign agents are not subject to the Bank 
Secrecy Act regulatory regime; the extent to 
which they are subject to anti-money 
laundering regulation, and the quality of that 
regulation, will vary with the jurisdictions in 
which they are located. 
There are a variety of ways in which a 
Money Services Business may be susceptible 
to the unwitting facilitation of money 
laundering through foreign agents or 
counterparties. For example, our review of 
Bank Secrecy Act data revealed several 
instances of suspected criminal activity— 
detected by existing anti-money laundering 
and suspicious activity reporting programs of 
Money Services Businesses and banks— 
where foreign agents of Money Services 
Business have engaged in bulk sales of 
sequentially numbered, U.S. denominated 
traveler’s checks or blocks of money orders, 
to one or two individuals. The individuals 
involved frequently purchased the 
instruments on multiple dates and in 
different locations, structuring the purchases 
to avoid reporting thresholds and issuer 
limits on daily instrument sales. The 
instruments usually had illegible signatures 
or failed to designate a beneficiary or payor. 
The instruments were then negotiated with 
one or more dealers in goods, such as 
diamonds, gems, or precious metals, 
deposited in foreign banks, and cleared 
through U.S. banks. In such cases, the 
clearing banks were so far removed from the 
transactions that they could not trace back or 
screen either the intervening transactions or 
the individuals involved in the transactions. 
A case involving suspicious activity in a 
Money Services Business’ domestic agent 
provides a further example of the type of 
high-risk activity that also may be engaged in 
by foreign agents or counterparties. In this 
instance, the domestic Money Service 
Business had policies, procedures, and 
controls that facilitated the detection of illicit 
activity at the agent. A group of six customers 
entered a money transmitter agent at 
approximately five-minute intervals to send 
the same structured amounts ($2,500) to the 
same receiver in a foreign country. Several 
weeks later, another group of six customers 
entered the same agent location and 
conducted an identical pattern of successive 
$2,500 transfers (a few minutes apart) to the 
same recipient in the same foreign country as 
the first set of transactions. Some of the 
individuals in the second group had the same 
last names as customers in the first group. 
Additional suspicious activity reports filed 
by the primary Money Services Business 
identified several other groups of customers 
initiating money transfers at this same agent 
business location, in the same manner, and 
in the same overall time frame. This activity 
by an agent drew the scrutiny of the Money 
Services Business, and in addition to the 
filing of suspicious activity reports, led to the 
termination of the relationship of the Money 
Services Business with the agent. 
These examples of illicit activity occurring 
at the agents of Money Services Businesses 
underscore the need for Money Services 
Businesses to include, as a part of their anti-
money laundering programs, procedures, 
policies, and controls to govern relationships 
with foreign agents and counterparties to 
enable the Money Services Business to 
perform the appropriate level of suspicious 
activity and risk monitoring. We believe that 
this obligation is an essential part of each 
Money Services Business’ existing obligation 
under 31 CFR 103.125 to develop and 
implement an effective anti-money 
laundering program.
4 This Interpretive 
Guidance will aid Money Services 
Businesses in adopting appropriate risk-
based policies, procedures, and controls on 
cross-border relationships with foreign agents 
and counterparties. 
Anti-Money Laundering Program Elements 
Relating to Foreign Agents and 
Counterparties 
Under 31 CFR 103.125(a), Money Services 
Businesses are required to develop, 
implement, and maintain an effective anti-
money laundering program reasonably 
designed to prevent the Money Services 
Business from being used to facilitate money 
laundering and the financing of terrorist 
activities. The program must be 
commensurate with the risks posed by the 
location, size, nature, and volume of the 
financial services provided by the Money 
Services Business. Additionally, the program 
must incorporate policies, procedures, and 
controls reasonably designed to assure 
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and 
implementing regulations. 
With respect to Money Services Businesses 
that utilize foreign agents or counterparties, 
a Money Services Business’ anti-money 
laundering program must include risk-based 
policies, procedures, and controls designed 
to identify and minimize money laundering 
and terrorist financing risks associated with 
foreign agents and counterparties that 
facilitate the flow of funds into and out of the 
United States. The program must be aimed at 
4 FinCEN previously interpreted 31 CFR 103.125 
to impose a similar obligation on a money 
transmitter with respect to its domestic agents. See 
Matter of Western Union, No. 2003–2 (Mar. 6, 2003) 
(www.fincen.gov). 

 
 
VerDate jul<14>2003 21:13 Dec 13, 2004 Jkt 205001 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4700 Sfmt 4700 E:\FR\FM\14DER1.SGM 14DER1
Federal Register / Vol. 69, No. 239 / Tuesday, December 14, 2004 / Rules and Regulations 74441 
preventing the products and services of the 
Money Services Business from being used to 
facilitate money laundering or terrorist 
financing through these relationships and 
detecting the use of these products and 
services for money laundering or terrorist 
financing by the Money Services Business or 
agent. Relevant risk factors may include, but 
are not limited to: 
• The foreign agent or counterparty’s 
location and jurisdiction of organization, 
chartering, or licensing. This would include 
considering the extent to which the relevant 
jurisdiction is internationally recognized as 
presenting a greater risk for money 
laundering or is considered to have more 
robust anti-money laundering standards. 
• The ownership of the foreign agent or 
counterparty. This includes whether the 
owners are known, upon reasonable inquiry, 
to be associated with criminal conduct or 
terrorism. For example, have the individuals 
been designated by Treasury’s Office of 
Foreign Assets Control as Specially 
Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons 
(i.e., involvement in terrorism, drug 
trafficking, or the proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction)? 
• The extent to which the foreign agent or 
counterparty is subject to anti-money 
laundering requirements in its jurisdiction 
and whether it has established such controls. 
• Any information known or readily 
available to the Money Services Business 
about the foreign agent or counterparty’s anti-
money laundering record, including public 
information in industry guides, periodicals, 
and major publications. 
• The nature of the foreign agent or 
counterparty’s business, the markets it 
serves, and the extent to which its business 
and the markets it serves present an 
increased risk for money laundering or 
terrorist financing. 
• The types and purpose of services to be 
provided to, and anticipated activity with, 
the foreign agent or counterparty. 
• The nature and duration of the Money 
Services Business’ relationship with the 
foreign agent or counterparty. 
Specifically, a Money Services Business’ 
anti-money laundering program should 
include procedures for the following: 
1. Conduct of Due Diligence on Foreign 
Agents and Counterparties 
Money Services Businesses should 
establish procedures for conducting 
reasonable, risk-based due diligence on 
potential and existing foreign agents and 
counterparties to help ensure that such 
foreign agents and counterparties are not 
themselves complicit in illegal activity 
involving the Money Services Business’ 
products and services, and that they have in 
place appropriate anti-money laundering 
controls to guard against the abuse of the 
Money Services Business’ products and 
services. Such due diligence must, at a 
minimum, include reasonable procedures to 
identify the owners of the Money Services 
Business’ foreign agents and counterparties, 
as well as to evaluate, on an ongoing basis, 
the operations of those foreign agents and 
counterparties and their implementation of 
policies, procedures, and controls reasonably 
designed to help assure that the Money 
Services Business’ products and services are 
not subject to abuse by the foreign agent’s or 
counterparty’s customers, employees, or 
contractors.
5 The extent of the due diligence 
required will depend on a variety of factors 
specific to each agent or counterparty. We 
expect Money Services Businesses to assess 
such risks and perform due diligence in a 
manner consistent with that risk, in light of 
the availability of information. 
2. Risk-based Monitoring of Foreign Agents or 
Counterparties 
In addition to the due diligence described 
above, in order to detect and report suspected 
money laundering or terrorist financing, 
Money Services Businesses should establish 
procedures for risk-based monitoring and 
review of transactions from, to, or through 
the United States that are conducted through 
foreign agents and counterparties.
6 Such 
procedures should also focus on identifying 
material changes in the agent’s risk profile, 
such as a change in ownership, business, or 
the regulatory scrutiny to which it is subject. 
The review of transactions should enable 
the Money Services Business to identify and, 
where appropriate, report as suspicious such 
occurrences as: instances of unusual wire 
activity, bulk sales or purchases of 
sequentially numbered instruments, multiple 
purchases or sales that appear to be 
structured, and illegible or missing customer 
information. Additionally, Money Services 
Businesses should establish procedures to 
assure that their foreign agents or 
counterparties are effectively implementing 
an anti-money laundering program and to 
discern obvious breakdowns in the 
implementation of the program by the foreign 
agent or counterparty. 
Similarly, money transmitters should have 
procedures in place to enable them to review 
foreign agent or counterparty activity for 
signs of structuring or unnecessarily complex 
transmissions through multiple jurisdictions 
that may be indicative of layering. Such 
procedures should also enable them to 
discern attempts to evade identification or 
other requirements, whether imposed by 
applicable law or by the Money Services 
Business’ own internal policies. Activity by 
agents or counterparties that appears aimed 
at evading the Money Services Business’ own 
controls can be indicative of complicity in 
illicit conduct; this activity must be 
scrutinized, reported as appropriate, and 
corrective action taken as warranted. 
5 Our anti-money laundering program rule, 31 
CFR 103.125(d)(iii), permits Money Service 
Businesses to satisfy this last requirement with 
regard to their domestic agents (which are also 
Money Service Businesses under the BSA 
regulations), by allocating responsibility for the 
program to their agents. Such an allocation, 
however, does not relieve a Money Service Business 
from ultimate responsibility for establishing and 
maintaining an effective anti-money laundering 
program. Id. 
6 Nothing in this Interpretive Guidance is 
intended to require Money Service Businesses to 
monitor or review, for purposes of the Bank Secrecy 
Act, transactions or activities of foreign agents or 
counterparties that occur entirely outside of the 
United States and do not flow from, to, or through 
the United States. 
3. Corrective Action and Termination 
Money Services Businesses should have 
procedures for responding to foreign agents 
or counterparties that present unreasonable 
risks of money laundering or the financing of 
terrorism. Such procedures should provide 
for the implementation of corrective action 
on the part of the foreign agent or 
counterparty or for the termination of the 
relationship with any foreign agent or 
counterparty that the Money Services 
Business determines poses an unacceptable 
risk of money laundering or terrorist 
financing, or that has demonstrated systemic, 
willful, or repeated lapses in compliance 
with the Money Services Business’ own anti-
money laundering procedures or 
requirements. 
While Money Services Businesses may 
already have implemented some or all of the 
procedures described in this Interpretive 
Guidance as a part of their anti-money 
laundering programs, we wish to provide a 
reasonable period of time for all affected 
Money Services Businesses to assess their 
operations, review their existing policies and 
programs for compliance with this Advisory, 
and implement any additional necessary 
changes. We will expect full compliance with 
this Interpretive Release within 180 days. 
Finally, we are mindful of the potential 
impact that this Interpretive Release may 
have on continuing efforts to bring informal 
value transfer systems into compliance with 
the existing regulatory framework of the Bank 
Secrecy Act. Experience has demonstrated 
the challenges in securing compliance by, for 
instance, hawalas and other informal value 
transfer systems. Further specification of 
Bank Secrecy Act compliance obligations 
carries with it the risk of driving these 
businesses underground, thereby 
undermining our ultimate regulatory goals. 
On balance, however, we believe that 
outlining the requirements for dealing with 
foreign agents and counterparties, including 
informal networks, is appropriate in light of 
the risks of money laundering and the 
financing of terrorism. 
William J. Fox, 
Director. 
[FR Doc. 04–27287 Filed 12–13–04; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 4810–02–P 
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND 
SECURITY 
Coast Guard 
33 CFR Part 117 
[CGD01–04–146] 
Drawbridge Operation Regulations: 
Merrimack River, MA 
AGENCY: Coast Guard, DHS. 
ACTION: Notice of temporary deviation 
from regulations. 
SUMMARY: The Commander, First Coast 
Guard District, has issued a temporary 
deviation from the drawbridge operation