Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FINRA Utility Menu

 

 
 
 About Us
 

 
 Careers
 

 
 BrokerCheck
 

 
 Data
 

 
 Media Center
 

 
 For Firms
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For the Public
FINRA DATA
FINRA Data provides non-commercial use of data, specifically the ability to save data views and create and manage a Bond Watchlist.
Login

For Industry Professionals
FINPRO GATEWAY
Registered representatives can fulfill Continuing Education requirements, view their industry CRD record and perform other compliance tasks.
Login

For Member Firms
FINRA GATEWAY
Firm compliance professionals can access filings and requests, run reports and submit support tickets.
Login

For Case Participants
DR PORTAL
Arbitration and mediation case participants and FINRA neutrals can view case information and submit documents through this Dispute Resolution Portal.
Login

Need Help? | Check System Status
Log In to other FINRA systems

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 EXPLORE THIS SECTION
 

 
 
 
 FINRA Main Navigation

 

 
 
 
 FINRA Manual
 
 
 Updates
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Interpreting the Rules
 
 
 Notices
 

 
 Guidance
 

 
 Frequently Asked Questions
 

 
 Key Topics
 

 
 Interpretive Questions
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The Rulemaking Process
 
 
 Rule Filings
 

 
 Rule Filing Status Report
 

 
 Requests for Comments
 

 
 Regulatory Policy Agenda
 

 
 Rulebook Consolidation
 

 
 Retrospective Rule Review
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Enforcement
 
 
 Disciplinary Actions Online
 

 
 Monthly Disciplinary Actions
 

 
 Sanction Guidelines
 

 
 Individuals Barred by FINRA
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Adjudication & Decisions
 
 
 National Adjudicatory Council (NAC)
 

 
 Office of Hearing Officers (OHO)
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 331. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Program

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 The Rule
 
 
 Notices
 
 
 Guidance
 
 
 News Releases
 
 
 FAQs
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Each capital acquisition broker shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to achieve and monitor its compliance with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311, et seq.), and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury. Each capital acquisition broker's anti-money laundering program must be approved, in writing, by a member of senior management. The anti-money laundering programs required by this Rule must, at a minimum,

(a) Establish and implement policies and procedures that can be reasonably expected to detect and cause the reporting of transactions required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(g) and the implementing regulations thereunder;

(b) Establish and implement policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and the implementing regulations thereunder;

(c) Provide for independent testing for compliance, no less frequently than every two years, to be conducted by capital acquisition broker personnel or by a qualified outside party;

(d) Designate and identify to FINRA (by name, title, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone number, and facsimile number) an individual or individuals responsible for implementing and monitoring the day-to-day operations and internal controls of the program (such individual or individuals must be an associated person of the capital acquisition broker) and provide prompt notification to FINRA regarding any change in such designation(s); 

(e) Provide ongoing training for appropriate personnel; and

(f) Include appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:

(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and

(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of paragraph (f)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.230(e)).

• • • Supplementary Material: --------------

.01 Independent Testing Requirements

(a) All capital acquisition brokers should undertake more frequent testing than required if circumstances warrant.

(b) Independent testing, pursuant to Rule 331(c), must be conducted by a designated person with a working knowledge of applicable requirements under the Bank Secrecy Act and its implementing regulations.

(c) Independent testing may not be conducted by:

(1) a person who performs the functions being tested,

(2) the designated anti-money laundering compliance person, or

(3) a person who reports to a person described in either subparagraphs (1) or (2) above.

.02 Review of Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Person Information

Each capital acquisition broker must identify, review, and, if necessary, update the information regarding its anti-money laundering compliance person designated pursuant to Rule 331(d) in the manner prescribed by FINRA Rule 4517.

 
 
 Amended by SR-FINRA-2018-035 eff. Nov. 19, 2018.
 Adopted by SR-FINRA-2015-054 eff. April 14, 2017.
 
 Selected Notice: 16-37, 18-36.
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No Results Found

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No Results Found

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No Results Found

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No Results Found

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Versions
 
 Nov 19, 2018 onwards
 Apr 14, 2017 - Nov 18, 2018
 
 

 

 

 Disclaimer: The summary and detailed topics are only available for 40
 FINRA Rules and have been applied as part of
 the FINRA Rulebook Search
 Tool™ (FIRST™) prototype. FIRST
 is for informational purposes only and does not provide
 regulatory or compliance advice. You should always review the relevant rule
 text and the related guidance to
 understand your regulatory obligations. Usage or reliance on this tool is not
 a defense to a failure to comply with
 the FINRA rules. Learn
 More

 
 
 Summary Topics
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Detailed Topics
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 FINRA Utility Menu

 

 
 
 About Us
 

 
 Careers
 

 
 BrokerCheck
 

 
 Data
 

 
 Media Center
 

 
 For Firms
 

 
 

 

 
 FINRA Main Navigation

 

 
 
 Rules & Guidance
 

 
 Registration, Exams & CE
 

 
 Events & Training
 

 
 Filing & Reporting
 

 
 Compliance Tools
 

 
 For Investors
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General Inquiries
301-590-6500

Securities Helpline for Seniors®
844-574-3577 (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm ET)

File a Regulatory Tip
To report on abuse or fraud in the industry

Arbitration & Mediation
FINRA operates the largest securities dispute resolution forum in the United States

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 File an Investor Complaint
File a complaint about fraud or unfair practices.

Small Firm Help Line
833-26-FINRA (Mon-Fri 9am-6pm ET)

Office of the Ombuds
Report a concern about FINRA at 888-700-0028

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Footer Legal Links

 

 
 
 Site Map
 

 
 Privacy Policy
 

 
 Terms of Use
 

 
 Translate
 

 
 Contact Us
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 © 2026 FINRA. All Rights Reserved.
FINRA is a Registered Trademark of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.