Skip to main content

 
 
 

 
 

An official website of the United States government

 
 
 

Careers

Quick Access

Most Requested

Bank Secrecy Act (BSA)

Contact Us

Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)

Comptroller's Handbook

Corporate Applications Search

Enforcement Action Search

Financial Institution Lists

Newsroom

Third-Party Relationships: Interagency Guidance on Risk Management

More OCC Websites

BankNet.gov

Find resources for bankers. 

HelpWithMyBank.gov

Get answers to banking questions. 

Search

More Search Tools

Financial Institution Search

CRA Performance Evaluations Search

Enforcement Actions Search

Corporate Applications Search (CAS)

 

 
 
 
 
 

 ​

 Search

Menu 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Home

 
 
 News & Events

 
 
 Newsroom

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 OCC Bulletin 2024-19
 |
 July 19, 2024
 

Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Program Requirements: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking

 


 

 
 Share This Page:

 
 

 
 

 







 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To
Chief Executive Officers of All National Banks, Federal Savings Associations, and Federal Branches and Agencies; Department and Division Heads; All Examining Personnel; and Other Interested Parties

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
Summary

On July 19, 2024, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the National Credit Union Administration (collectively, the agencies) issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking that would amend the requirements that each agency has issued for its supervised banks, currently referred to as Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) compliance programs, to establish, implement, and maintain effective, risk-based, and reasonably designed anti-money laundering (AML) and countering the financing of terrorism (CFT) programs. The amendments align with changes that are being concurrently proposed by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) as a result of the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (AML Act).

The agencies and FinCEN are also issuing a joint statement that describes their proposed rules and the additional steps necessary to implement the AML Act.

Note for Community Bank

The proposed amendments would apply to all national banks and all federal savings associations, including community banks.

Highlights

The notice of proposed rulemaking would propose the following changes, among others:

Incorporating a risk assessment process in AML/CFT program rules that would require, among other things, consideration of national AML/CFT priorities published by FinCEN.

Including customer due diligence requirements to reflect prior amendments to FinCEN’s requirements.

Including amendments to codify longstanding supervisory expectations and conform to changes made by the AML Act.

Encouraging, but not requiring, banks to consider, evaluate, and as appropriate, implement innovative approaches to meet compliance obligations pursuant to the BSA.

Background

Pursuant to the AML Act, FinCEN is amending its BSA compliance program rules to incorporate national AML/CFT priorities and other changes. The agencies have independent authority to prescribe regulations requiring banks to establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor their compliance with the requirements of the BSA. The agencies are proposing to amend their rules concurrently with FinCEN.

In 2016, FinCEN amended its AML compliance program rules to incorporate customer due diligence (CDD) requirements, adding beneficial ownership information collection requirements into FinCEN’s AML compliance program rule for certain financial institutions, including banks. The proposed rule would add CDD as a required component of the agencies’ AML/CFT program rules, which would mirror FinCEN’s existing rule.

Further Information

Please contact Jina Cheon, Special Counsel; Melissa Lisenbee, Counsel; Priscilla Benner, Counsel; Scott Burnett, Counsel; or Henry Barkhausen, Counsel; Chief Counsel's Office, at (202) 649-5490.

 

Theodore J. Dowd

Acting Senior Deputy Comptroller and Chief Counsel

Related Links

Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Program Requirements (PDF)

Interagency Statement on the Issuance of the AML/CFT Program Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (PDF)

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Topic(s):
 
 
 Bank Secrecy Act & Anti-Money Laundering (BSA/AML)

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

Our websites

BankNet.gov

Find resources for bankers.

HelpWithMyBank.gov

Get answers to banking questions.

Careers

Join one of the best places to work.

OCC.gov

Visit the official website of the OCC.

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Privacy Policy

 USA.gov

Accessibility

 U.S. Treasury

Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

 
 No Fear Act Data

Whistleblower Protection

Vulnerability Disclosure

Contact

Get OCC Email Updates