FHLBank
System at 100
Focusing on the Future


1
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
MESSAGE FROM THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
 MESSAGE FROM THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
In 1932, Congress created the Federal Home Loan Bank System 
(System) to help revive a housing market devastated by the Great 
Depression, as well as to provide an ongoing, reliable source of 
liquidity and support to financial institutions engaged in home 
mortgage lending.  The role of the System has evolved since its origin, 
both at the direction of Congress and in response to shifts in the 
mortgage and financial markets.  Nevertheless, while the nation’s 
housing finance system has changed dramatically over the past 90 
years, providing liquidity to support housing finance and community 
development, especially through small, community-based institutions 
with limited access to capital markets, remains a critical and core 
focus of the System.  
With the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBanks) approaching their 
centennial, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) announced 
the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future initiative in 
August 2022 to ensure the FHLBanks remain well positioned to meet 
the needs of their members and the communities they serve.  As 
part of this review of the FHLBank System, FHFA solicited written 
input from the public and held listening sessions and roundtable 
discussions across the country.  Through this process, FHFA undertook 
detailed analysis to form a vision for the FHLBanks’ future that will 
allow them to advance their mission in a safe and sound manner.
Clarifying the mission of the FHLBanks and updating how FHFA 
evaluates their performance in achieving that mission is a central 
theme of the initiative.  Over the 90 years of the System’s existence, 
its membership base, the types of collateral that can be pledged for 
advances, and the FHLBanks’ product offerings have expanded.  As 
these shifts have occurred, the connection of the FHLBank System to 
housing and community development has become less direct.  
Sandra L. Thompson 
Director, Federal Housing  
Finance Agency
Joshua Stallings 
Deputy Director, FHFA 
Division of Bank Regulation

2
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
MESSAGE FROM THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
While the FHLBanks play a critical role as providers of liquidity, the System must also 
appropriately support housing and community development.  
The System has been a reliable source of liquidity for its members, especially during times 
of market stress, such as during the onset of the financial crisis in 2008 and the COVID-19 
pandemic.  Most recently, in March 2023, the FHLBanks experienced significant advance 
demand because of banking sector volatility and the failure of several regional banks, and they 
provided a record volume of advances to ensure their members had access to liquidity in an 
uncertain market.  These bank failures and the ongoing market stress highlighted the need 
for a clearer distinction between the appropriate role of the FHLBanks, which provide funding 
to support their members’ liquidity needs across the economic cycle, and that of the Federal 
Reserve, which maintains the primary financing facility for troubled institutions with immediate, 
emergency liquidity needs.  The FHLBanks must also work with their members’ primary 
regulators to ensure processes are built to meet the needs of members in all market conditions. 
While housing affordability has long been a challenge in many markets, consumers now are 
facing high costs to own or rent homes throughout the country, exacerbated by a limited supply 
of affordable single-family and multifamily housing.  FHFA is committed to reducing barriers and 
increasing support for the FHLBanks’ housing and community development activities, especially 
in underserved and financially vulnerable communities, which include rural and tribal areas, 
as well as communities of color, all while ensuring the safety and soundness of the FHLBank 
System.  The Agency will also consider how to ensure members that have access to low-cost 
funding from the FHLBanks appropriately support housing and community development 
activities.  
In addition, there is a need to revisit structural and governance requirements that were 
designed to reflect a housing finance system of the past.  The regional composition of the 
FHLBank System has been, and likely will continue to be, impacted by demographic shifts and 
consolidation among members—trends that will require continued monitoring and analysis.  
The FHLBanks should collaborate, where appropriate, to achieve greater operational efficiencies 
and improve delivery of products and services.  FHFA will explore opportunities to harmonize 
member eligibility requirements and modernize the composition and size of FHLBank boards of 
directors.  
Overall, this report provides a blueprint for innovative and prudent steps to bolster and 
improve the FHLBank System.  The publication of this report represents the beginning of a 
multi-year, collaborative effort with stakeholders to address the recommended actions in the 
report.  FHFA can implement some of the recommendations through ongoing supervision, as 

3
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
MESSAGE FROM THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
well as rulemaking or guidance, under existing statutory authorities.  However, there are some 
recommendations that can only be fully implemented through Congressional action. 
Stakeholder participation was critical to the success of this initiative, and we are thankful to 
everyone who contributed their time and expertise—from the more than 230 people who spoke 
at one of our listening sessions or participated in one of the 19 regional roundtable discussions 
to the nearly 600 stakeholders who provided written input.  These contributions were 
instrumental in shaping the recommendations in this report, and we look forward to continued 
collaboration and partnership.
Joshua Stallings 
Deputy Director 
FHFA Division of Federal Home Loan 
Bank Regulation
Sandra L. Thompson 
Director  
Federal Housing Finance Agency


4
4
4
TABLE OF CONTENTS4
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
Executive Summary .................................................................................6
I. Background to FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future ....... 11
II. Mission of the FHLBank System .........................................................26
III. Stable and Reliable Source of Liquidity ............................................ 31
IV. Housing and Community Development ............................................40
V. FHLBank System Operational Efficiency, Structure, and Governance 58
VI. Moving Forward ............................................................................... 69
TABLE OF CONTENTS

5
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
TABLE OF CONTENTS5
Appendix 1: List of Acronyms ................................................................71
Appendix 2: Overview of FHLBank System ............................................72
Appendix 3: FHLBank System at 100 Initiative — Approach ................. 90
Appendix 4: Summary of Feedback Received ....................................... 95
Appendix 5: FHLBanks and Recent Bank Failures  ............................... 103
Appendix 6: Literature Review of Prior Research and Reviews ...........112
Appendix 7: Accessible Figures ........................................................... 116
Cover photo courtesy of NeighborWorks Boise.  Photos used in this report were provided by 
organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the 
Future initiative.  Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 

6
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Federal Home Loan Bank System (System) 
has served as a key component of the nation’s 
housing finance system since its creation 
over 90 years ago.  The mortgage market, 
the broader financial system, and the Federal 
Home Loan Banks (FHLBanks) themselves 
have undergone significant changes over nine 
decades.  These changes reflect underlying 
shifts in technology and structured products, 
land use and development, demographics, 
legal and regulatory frameworks, and 
consumer preferences. 
Today, the FHLBanks connect domestic 
financial institutions—many of which are 
small, community-focused lenders—to the 
global capital markets.  Those connections 
make it possible for lenders to provide more 
consistent and sustained support for housing 
finance and community development.  By 
many metrics, the FHLBanks have achieved 
this objective, as the liquidity they provide 
has facilitated affordable homeownership 
and rental housing throughout the country.  
Despite these successes, the evolving nature 
of the modern mortgage market necessitates 
an in-depth review of the structure, 
operations, and oversight of the FHLBanks to 
ensure they are most effectively advancing 
their mission.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), 
established by Congress in 2008, serves as 
regulator of the FHLBank System.  In August 
2022, FHFA launched the 
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the 
Future initiative, the first comprehensive 
review of the FHLBank System in decades.  
Throughout this process, FHFA undertook a 
prospective analysis of changes that may be 
warranted to ensure the FHLBanks are well 
positioned to fulfill their mission in the years 
ahead.  The initiative involved significant 
stakeholder outreach, a historical review 
of the role of the FHLBanks, and detailed 
analysis of both the strengths and areas 
for improvement in the System’s current 
structure.
FHFA’s vision for the future is to have an 
effectively governed System that efficiently 
provides stable and reliable funding to 
creditworthy members and delivers innovative 
products and services to support the housing 
and community development needs of the 
communities its members serve, all in a safe 
and sound manner.
In this report, FHFA presents the actions that 
it plans to pursue in service of this vision.  This 
report categorizes these actions under four 
broad themes.  The themes are:
1. Mission of the FHLBank System
2. Stable and reliable source of liquidity
3. Housing and community development
4.  FHLBank System operational 
efficiency, structure, and governance

7
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Mission of the FHLBank System
In the decades since the FHLBank System was 
established in 1932, the System’s membership 
has grown more diverse, and there have been 
significant structural changes in the housing 
and mortgage markets, such as the types 
of products widely available to consumers 
and the growth of structured securitization 
markets as compared to whole loan sales.  At 
the same time, there remain significant unmet 
housing and community development needs 
across the country.  Against this backdrop, 
and for complex and varied reasons, there 
has been a decreased focus on housing-
related activities by many institutions that 
are members of the FHLBank System.  These 
changes, taken together, highlight the need for 
FHFA to clarify the mission of the System so 
the FHLBanks are held accountable for serving 
their public purpose.  
FHFA plans to update and clarify its regulatory 
statement of the System’s mission to better 
reflect the FHLBanks’ appropriate role in the 
broader housing finance system.  In doing 
so, FHFA will develop improved metrics and 
thresholds by which to oversee the FHLBanks 
and will incorporate mission performance 
in the supervisory rating and evaluation 
processes.  FHFA will also evaluate how the 
FHLBanks could provide financial incentives 
in a safe and sound manner to members with 
a strong and demonstrable connection to the 
mission of the System. 
There are two core objectives to the FHLBanks’ 
mission: (1) providing stable and reliable 
liquidity to their members, and (2) supporting 
housing and community development.  These 
objectives are described in greater detail 
below.  
Stable and Reliable Source of Liquidity
A key function of the FHLBanks is to provide 
low-cost, stable, and reliable funding to 
creditworthy members, primarily in the 
form of advances.  Many institutions obtain 
advances in the normal course of their 
business operations, while others rely on 
them when facing specific liquidity needs.  For 
depository institutions, FHLBank advances can 
provide liquidity when deposit outflows are 
elevated, which allows them to continue to 
serve their communities.  This is a particularly 
important benefit for smaller institutions with 
limited access to the capital markets.  
The role of the FHLBanks in providing secured 
advances must be distinguished from the 
Federal Reserve’s financing facilities, which 
are set up to provide emergency financing 
for troubled financial institutions confronted 
with immediate liquidity challenges.  Due to 
operational and financing limitations of the 
market intermediation process, the FHLBanks 
cannot functionally serve as the lender of 
last resort, particularly for large, troubled 
members that can have significant borrowing 
needs over a short period of time.  To address 
this, the FHLBanks should coordinate with 
their members’ primary regulators and the 

8
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
regional Federal Reserve Banks to ensure 
financial institutions’ borrowing needs 
continue to be met when they no longer 
meet the FHLBanks’ credit criteria.  Moreover, 
the FHLBanks’ model of providing liquidity 
primarily through secured advances should 
be accompanied by a thorough and regularly 
updated credit evaluation of their members to 
avoid encouraging excessive risk taking.
There are additional steps FHFA believes will 
better position the FHLBanks to perform their 
liquidity mission, including: (i) enhancing the 
ability of the FHLBanks to maintain interest-
bearing deposits with commercial banks 
to manage intra-day liquidity requests; (ii) 
limiting the potential for an increase in debt 
issuance costs for all members following a 
large liquidity request from a single member; 
and (iii) strengthening capital management 
and stress testing to ensure the FHLBanks 
remain well positioned to serve their members 
through all economic environments. 
Housing and Community Development
The FHLBanks’ funding support for their 
members has expanded beyond housing 
finance, and it is critical for the FHLBanks to 
take proactive steps to ensure the liquidity 
they provide to their members adequately 
promotes the housing and community 
development components of their mission, as 
1  The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (Bank Act) and FHFA’s Advances regulation define a CFI as an institution whose deposits 
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and that has average total assets below the statutory cap.  See 
12 U.S.C. 1422(10); 12 CFR 1263.1.  The Bank Act set the statutory cap at $1 billion in 2008, and requires FHFA to adjust the cap 
annually to reflect the percentage increase in the CPI-U, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor.  For 2023, the CFI limit is 
$1.417 billion.  See 87 FR 80184 (Dec. 29, 2022).
this is a fundamental reason for the System’s 
existence.
The primary mechanism by which FHLBank 
lending currently supports housing finance 
is through the acceptance of housing-related 
collateral and some Community Financial 
Institution (CFI)
1  collateral to secure advances.  
The FHLBanks also support housing finance 
directly through their purchase of single-
family mortgages (Acquired Member Asset 
(AMA) programs).  FHFA will seek to expand 
these efforts by: (i) requiring the FHLBanks 
to establish mission-oriented collateral 
programs that could improve their support 
of safe, sustainable housing finance and 
community development products that 
lack a reliable secondary market outlet; (ii) 
increasing the FHLBanks’ engagement with 
mission-oriented members such as community 
development financial institutions (CDFIs); 
and (iii) re-evaluating the definition of long-
term advances, which are generally required 
by statute to be used to provide funds for 
residential housing finance.    
The FHLBanks’ Affordable Housing Programs 
(AHP), Community Investment Programs 
(CIP), and Community Investment Cash 
Advance (CICA) programs are directed at 
supporting affordable housing and community 
development through grants and subsidized 
advances.  These programs have had a 

9
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
positive impact in furthering the mission of 
the System, but they remain small relative to 
the broader housing needs throughout the 
country.  And while these programs are not a 
holistic solution to addressing all affordable 
housing and community development needs, 
FHFA will re-evaluate them to encourage 
greater use in a safe and sound manner.  If 
enacted by Congress, a doubling of the 
statutory minimum contribution for the AHP 
would be one of the most significant means of 
increasing the FHLBanks’ engagement in these 
activities.
FHFA will explore revising the community 
investment standards that members must 
meet to maintain access to long-term 
advances.  Known as Community Support 
Requirements (CSR),
2 these standards provide 
incentives for lenders to support housing 
and community development—for example, 
by taking into account a member’s record of 
lending to first-time homebuyers.
FHLBank System Operational Efficiency, 
Structure, and Governance
Similar to the System’s mission requirements, 
many of its existing operational, structural, 
and governance requirements were created 
during an era in which the financial system and 
housing markets were fundamentally different 
from what they are today.  For that reason, 
these requirements warrant renewed focus to 
ensure they are appropriately calibrated to the 
2   See 12 U.S.C. 1430(g).  Commercial banks and savings associations in the U.S. are required to help meet the needs of 
borrowers in all segments of their communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, through laws like the 
Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, 12 U.S.C. 2901-2908.
modern-day responsibilities of the System.
While FHLBank advance demand can fluctuate 
significantly, the FHLBanks’ operational costs 
are largely fixed.  Improving operational 
efficiency helps to reduce costs, and the 
resulting savings can be passed to members 
through lending activities or increased 
net income, which leads to increased AHP 
funding.  Because each individual FHLBank’s 
operations are relatively small, collaboration 
and consolidation of shared functions across 
the System is potentially where the largest 
efficiencies could be achieved.
The structure of FHLBank districts and 
composition of their membership affect the 
efficiency and mission impact of FHLBanks’ 
activities.  The FHLBank districts have 
undergone minimal change since 1932 despite 
significant shifts in their membership and a 
steady increase in the expense of operating an 
individual FHLBank.  This highlights the need 
to ensure the FHLBanks are efficient and stable 
moving forward.  Moreover, membership 
eligibility requirements for current and new 
members should promote sufficient mission 
orientation, while still ensuring the safety and 
soundness of the System.
Many board governance requirements were 
also established decades ago and warrant 
revision.  FHFA will evaluate the optimal size of 
an FHLBank board of directors while working 
to revise requirements for independent 

10
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
directors to ensure the boards are able 
to effectively address emerging risks and 
oversee the safety and soundness and mission 
achievement of the FHLBanks in today’s 
financial market environment.
Moving Forward
FHFA’s review of the FHLBank System spanned 
over a year and featured engagement with 
hundreds of interested stakeholders.  In many 
ways, however, the real work of implementing 
FHFA’s vision for the FHLBank System at its 
centennial begins with the publication of this 
report.
In the months and years ahead, FHFA will 
undertake further review of the issues 
described in this report and will take steps 
in pursuit of its recommendations through 
ongoing supervision, as well as guidance or 
rulemaking.  
Much of this work will entail additional 
collaboration and communication with key 
stakeholders, including federal and state 
regulators.  Certain other recommendations 
require statutory changes, which in turn 
require coordination with, and support from, 
Congress.
The continued safety and soundness and 
mission achievement of the FHLBank System 
is critical to the health of the U.S. housing 
finance system.  FHFA is committed to 
mitigating the risks facing the FHLBanks, 
facilitating opportunities for them to serve the 
needs of their members, and ensuring they 
are well positioned to support housing finance 
and community development in all parts of 
the country for the long term.
Photo courtesy of NeighborWorks Boise, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: 
Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.  


11
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING 
ON THE FUTURE
In 1932, Congress sought to reinvigorate housing markets devastated by the Great Depression 
by enacting the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (Bank Act), which established the System as a new 
source of funding for mortgage lenders.  Today, the System consists of 11 regional FHLBanks, 
each serving a designated geographic area of the United States and its territories, as well as the 
Office of Finance, which issues consolidated obligations to fund the FHLBanks’ operations (see 
Figure 1).
3 
FIGURE 1: FHLBANK SYSTEM MAP
3   The Office of Finance issues debt for the FHLBank System in the form of discount notes and bonds.  Collectively, these 
debt securities are known as consolidated obligations.  For additional detail, see https://www.fhlb-of.com/ofweb_userWeb/
pageBuilder/debt-securities-home-41. 

12
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Housing and financial markets have evolved over the intervening decades and many of these 
changes have affected the FHLBanks, their membership, and the FHLBanks’ ability to serve their 
housing finance mission.  More recently, member demand for advances dropped to a 20-year 
low in late 2021, many member institutions have decreased their focus on housing and 
community development activities, advances have grown more concentrated among larger 
members, and operational expenses have remained high even with lower business volumes (see 
Figure 2).  As the regulator of the FHLBanks, FHFA announced in August 2022 that it would 
conduct a comprehensive review of the FHLBank System, the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing 
on the Future initiative.  This report, informed by feedback from stakeholders and by FHFA’s 
supervisory work and analyses, outlines FHFA’s vision for the future of the FHLBank System as it 
approaches its centennial in 2032.  The report also incorporates lessons learned from periods of 
market stress, including events in March 2023,
4 and FHFA’s proposed actions to ensure the 
System remains safe and sound while the FHLBanks serve their mission.
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023 
Note: Dollar amounts are par value unless otherwise specified.
FIGURE 2: FHLBANK ASSETS AND OPERATIONAL EXPENSES ($ BILLIONS)
FHLBank System Membership
Each FHLBank is a cooperative owned by member institutions located within its geographically 
defined district.
5  In 1932, eligibility for FHLBank membership was limited to thrift institutions, 
whose charters generally required them to focus on mortgage lending, as well as insurance 
4     Appendix 5 is responsive to a request from Sen. Sherrod Brown, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs, dated April 20, 2023, requesting a detailed review in the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future 
report on the FHLBank System’s role in providing liquidity in the months and days leading up to recent bank failures; and 
whether all actions were consistent with safety and soundness, financial stability, and the FHLBank System’s mission. 
5  See 12 U.S.C. 1423, 1424, 1426, 1427.

13
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
companies, provided they made long-term 
mortgage loans and met certain other eligibility 
requirements.  Eligibility for FHLBank System 
membership expanded in 1989 to include 
federally insured commercial banks and credit 
unions, provided they had at least 10 percent 
of their assets in residential mortgage loans.  In 
2008, eligibility was further expanded to include 
CDFIs, and in 2015 to non-federally-insured credit 
unions (implemented through rulemaking in 
2017).
6   Figure 3 shows the distribution of FHLBank 
membership as of June 30, 2023.  Certain eligible 
non-members, referred to in FHFA regulations as 
“housing associates,”
7  also have limited access to 
products and services offered by the FHLBanks. 
6  See 12 CFR part 1263 for FHLBank membership eligibility requirements.
7  See 12 U.S.C. 1430b; 12 CFR part 1264.  Most housing associates are state or local housing finance agencies.
FIGURE 3: FHLBANK MEMBERS BY 
MEMBER TYPE
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 
2023 
Note: 6,487 members as of June 30, 2023
Photo courtesy of Community Investment Corporation, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank 
System at 100: Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.

14
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Basic Business Functions
The primary business of the FHLBanks is to make 
fully secured, low-cost loans, known as advances, 
to their members.  In the early history of the 
FHLBank System, eligible collateral for advances 
was limited to home mortgage loans, and the 
FHLBanks were the only viable source through 
which most mortgage lenders could leverage 
their existing mortgages to secure funding to 
make additional home mortgage loans.  Over 
time, the FHLBanks’ role began to shift due to 
a variety of factors, such as the creation and 
development of the market for mortgage-backed 
securities (MBS), which provided financial 
institutions an alternative means of obtaining 
liquidity from traditionally non-liquid mortgage 
assets.  Congress also permitted the FHLBanks to accept a wider range of collateral, 
including U.S. government and agency securities, 
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 
2023
FIGURE 4: COLLATERAL TYPES PLEDGED BY FHLBANK MEMBERS
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023
FIGURE 5: FHLBANK ASSETS ($ BILLIONS)

15
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
commercial real estate loans, and commercial 
MBS.  Because of this broad range of acceptable 
collateral, and because membership eligibility 
requirements for holding residential mortgage 
loans are not currently applied on an ongoing basis 
once an applicant becomes a member, FHLBank 
advances now support a wider range of member 
activities beyond housing finance.  Figure 4 
provides the distribution of eligible collateral as of 
June 30, 2023.
Over time, the FHLBanks have introduced other 
products and services, such as: (1) the AMA 
programs, under which the FHLBanks purchase 
qualifying residential mortgage loans from 
participating members, and (2) standby letters 
of credit, through which FHLBanks essentially 
guarantee payments owed by members to 
third parties.  In addition, the FHLBanks now 
invest in a wider range of financial instruments, 
including housing-related MBS and non-mortgage 
investments. 
Figure 5 shows the distribution of FHLBank System assets as of June 30, 2023.  Advances, AMA, and 
MBS are the three assets that connect the FHLBank System to financing different types of real estate, 
including residential housing.  Generally, most non-mortgage assets–such as U.S. Treasuries, federal 
funds (fed funds) sold,
8 or repurchase agreements–are used by FHLBanks to meet the short-term 
liquidity needs of their members, manage their balance sheets, and earn income. 
While the composition of FHLBank membership has expanded to include more types of depository 
and non-depository institutions, the FHLBanks’ core function of providing liquidity both in normal 
financial environments and during times of market stress has not changed.  The FHLBank System 
continues to serve as a reliable and stable source of liquidity through issuance of advances funded 
primarily by consolidated obligations.  Historically, the FHLBanks have benefited from ready access 
to low-cost funding from the market, even during periods of financial market dislocation, due in 
8  The federal funds market consists of domestic unsecured borrowings in U.S. dollars by depository institutions from other 
depository institutions and certain other entities, primarily government-sponsored enterprises.
Liabilities ($ Billions)
Consolidated Obligations
Bonds 955.5
Discount Notes 365.5
Deposits 13.3
Mandatory 
Redeemable Capital 
Stock
1.5
Other Liabilities 13.0
Total Liabilities 1,348.8
Capital ($Billions)
Capital Stock 47.6
Retained Earnings 26.4
Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
-0.6
Total Capital 73.4
Total Liabilities and 
Capital
1,422.3
FIGURE 6: ASSET DISTRIBUTIONS  
($ BILLIONS)

16
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
part to their joint and several liability and status 
as Congressionally-chartered Government-
Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs).
9   Figure 6 
provides the distribution of the System’s 
aggregate capital and liabilities, including 
consolidated obligations, deposits, retained 
earnings, and capital stock, as of June 30, 2023.
Affordable Housing and Community 
Development Programs 
The Bank Act requires each FHLBank to 
operate an Affordable Housing Program, which  
9     While the Office of Finance often issues consolidated obligations on behalf of a specific FHLBank, each of the other 
FHLBanks is jointly and severally liable for the timely repayment of principal and interest on all consolidated obligations.  See 
12 U.S.C. 1431(b), (c).  Although FHLBank System consolidated obligations must “plainly state that such obligations are not 
obligations of the United States and are not guaranteed by the United States,” 12 U.S.C. 1435, the FHLBanks’ status as GSEs 
likely supports FHLBank debt. 
10  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(i), (j) (CIP and AHP , respectively).
11   In Figure 7, the statutory funding contribution for a given year is based on the FHLBanks’ net income in the prior year.
provides grants or subsidized advances to 
finance homeownership or rental housing for 
low- or moderate-income households.  Each 
FHLBank is also required to offer a Community 
Investment Program, which provides lower-
cost advances to finance housing and 
economic development projects at targeted 
income levels.
10   The Bank Act requires each 
FHLBank to contribute at least 10 percent of 
its prior year’s net earnings on an annual basis 
to fund its AHP .  Figure 7 shows the FHLBanks’ 
combined statutory funding contributions 
through 2022.
11 
FIGURE 7: FHLBANKS’ AHP STATUTORY FUNDING CONTRIBUTIONS (1990-2022)
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of December 31, 2022 
Note: The amount of funds awarded annually may include funding adjustments from prior years or funds 
accelerated from future years.  In these circumstances, an FHLBank’s amount of awarded funds may differ from the 
statutorily required contribution of funds.

17
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Photo courtesy of Nevada HAND, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing 
on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 

18
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Evolution of U.S. Mortgage Finance and the FHLBank System
Over the course of the FHLBanks’ existence, structural changes to the financial system have 
changed the role of the FHLBanks.  Beginning in the late 1960s, Congress began to broaden 
the authorities of thrifts, which comprised most of the System’s membership throughout much 
of its history, permitting them to offer a wider range of financial services and invest in a wider 
range of financial instruments.  In 1980, thrifts and credit unions also obtained access to the 
Federal Reserve’s discount window, a source of liquidity previously available only to commercial 
banks.  When commercial banks and credit unions were granted access to the FHLBank System 
in 1989, these organizations maintained their access to the Federal Reserve discount window.  
The FHLBanks remain a reliable source of liquidity for members, but the distinction between the 
System’s role and that of the Federal Reserve discount window as lender of last resort has not 
been clear, especially during times of market stress.
While depository and insurance members have generally maintained ready access to the 
FHLBank System, CDFIs that support low-income communities have found it more difficult to 
access System products and services due to FHLBank-imposed requirements—for example, on 
collateral eligibility, modeling, and haircuts.  Many CDFIs also lack experience engaging with an 
FHLBank and may opt not to pursue membership if the barriers appear larger than the benefits.
Source: eMBS and Urban Institute
FIGURE 8: NONBANK ORIGINATION SHARE

19
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Moreover, domestic housing finance markets have fundamentally changed since the FHLBank 
System was created.  For example, the development of the MBS market provided a means 
through which residential mortgage lenders could fund new home loans, thereby providing an 
alternative to FHLBank advances.  Another notable change has been the growth of nonbank 
mortgage companies, which are not eligible for FHLBank membership, but which originate 
and service a large and increasing share of mortgages (see Figure 8).  Relatedly, depository 
institutions (banks, credit unions, and thrifts) that are eligible for FHLBank membership account 
for a decreasing share of home mortgage lending in general. 
Finally, while the supply of affordable housing has been low for decades, shortages in materials 
and labor for construction were exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, contributing to 
increasing house prices and rents.  These issues compound affordability problems and raise 
the level of subsidy needed (from sources such as the AHP) for housing development and 
renovation projects or for homeownership down payments. 
Shifts in the housing finance market and changes in the composition and activities of member 
institutions raise questions about the types of entities that should have access to FHLBank 
products and services, as well as concerns about how effectively the FHLBanks are achieving 
their mission to provide liquidity and support for housing finance.  Figure 9 shows changes in 
the composition of FHLBank membership since 1989, the year that the Financial Institutions 
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) opened FHLBank membership to all insured 
depository institutions holding more than 10 percent of their assets in residential mortgage 
loans.
FIGURE 9: FHLBANK MEMBERSHIP (1989-2023Q2)
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023


20
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Spring 2023 Market Stress
As shown in Figure 10, advance volumes fell to 20-year lows in late 2021, coinciding with 
rising volumes of deposits that provided a liquidity cushion for commercial banks during the 
pandemic.  However, advance demand started to increase during 2022 and early 2023, as 
an increase in short-term interest rates made money market funds a more attractive option 
for many depositors, leading to deposit outflows.  While demand for advances creates more 
business for the FHLBanks, some advances during this time appeared to fund member activities 
unrelated to housing or community development.
FIGURE 10: FHLBANK ADVANCES OUTSTANDING SINCE 1964 (BOOK VALUE)
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023
During the week beginning March 13, 2023, the FHLBanks funded $675.6 billion in advances, 
the largest one-week advance volume in FHLBank System history.  While the FHLBank advances 
helped many members withstand market stress, Silvergate Bank (an active borrower) voluntarily 
dissolved in the prior week.  Shortly thereafter, Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank failed 
after actively borrowing from their respective FHLBanks.  First Republic Bank, another member, 
failed approximately seven weeks later.  As shown in Figure 11, these four entities increased 
their borrowings from their FHLBanks starting in late 2022.  This resembled a pattern observed 
in the lead-up to the 2008 crisis, during which the System saw increased borrowing by members 
in distress just before failure.
12 
12 Washington Mutual and Countrywide both had significant advances outstanding at the time of their failures and increased 
their borrowing in the lead-up to their failures. 

21
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
FIGURE 11: FAILED MEMBER ADVANCES OUTSTANDING
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of May 11, 2023
The FHLBank System did not incur losses on its advances to these failed members.  One of the 
failed banks paid off its advances before dissolution.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(FDIC) paid off the advances and any associated prepayment fees for two of the failed entities, 
and the purchasing bank for First Republic Bank remains liable for its outstanding advances.  The 
broader financial system, however, incurred losses because of these failures, highlighting the 
need for greater focus by the FHLBanks on evaluating member creditworthiness and better 
coordination with their members’ primary regulators when a member’s financial condition is 
deteriorating.  Costs to the financial system of failed entities may be borne by the FDIC and the 
National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) when they pay off outstanding advances.  These 
costs are then passed on to their regulated entities through increased insurance premiums.
While concerns with FHLBank lending to significantly deteriorating financial institutions must be 
addressed, the System has served its broader membership base successfully during periods of 
market stress.  Nevertheless, during the March 2023 bank failures, the FHLBank System’s role 
of providing low-cost liquidity came under stress, due to sizable advance demand from large 
members, some of which were significantly bigger than the FHLBanks themselves.  While the 
System maintains strong liquidity levels for its size, the FHLBanks generally must issue debt to 
meet all their members’ needs—particularly the largest members.  There are also limitations on 

22
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
the ability of debt markets to absorb FHLBank 
debt in a short period of time, the amount of 
cash the FHLBanks can hold in interest-bearing 
deposit accounts or at the Federal Reserve, 
and the ability of the System to meet sizable 
liquidity requests late in the day or after debt 
markets close. 
During the March 2023 bank failures, the 
FHLBanks also discovered that some large, 
troubled members had not established the 
ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve 
discount window and therefore were overly 
reliant on the FHLBanks.  While the FHLBanks 
continue to serve as a source for reliable 
liquidity—which allows members, particularly 
smaller members, to continue to serve their 
communities—the Federal Reserve has long 
been considered the U.S. banking system’s 
lender of last resort.
13   The reliance of some 
large, troubled members on the FHLBanks, 
rather than the Federal Reserve, for liquidity 
during periods of significant financial stress 
may be inconsistent with the relative 
responsibilities of the FHLBanks and the 
Federal Reserve. 
FHFA’s Vision for the FHLBank System at 
100
FHFA’s vision for the future of the FHLBank 
System is to have an effectively governed 
System that efficiently provides stable and 
13  The Federal Reserve System was set up to, among other responsibilities, serve as lender of last resort.  Prior to the 
establishment of the Federal Reserve in 1913, large private sector banking firms performed this role.  Since the Great 
Depression, the Federal Reserve’s actions as lender of last resort were undertaken using its authority to provide discount 
window funding to insured depository institutions.  Such loans can be to individual institutions facing funding pressures, or they 
can be to banks more generally to address broader financial stresses.  See  
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/fischer20160210a.htm
reliable funding to creditworthy members, 
and delivers innovative products and services 
to support the housing and community 
development needs of the communities 
its members serve, all in a safe and sound 
manner.  This vision reflects the language 
of the Bank Act and is guided by: (i) FHFA’s 
assessment of the housing and financial 
market landscape; (ii) financial market 
disruptions spanning many decades; (iii) 
feedback from hundreds of stakeholders 
received by FHFA during the listening sessions 
and roundtables held in 2022-2023; and (iv) 
lessons learned from the implementation of 
the Bank Act, other statutory and regulatory 
requirements, and the voluntary merger of the 
FHLBank of Seattle and the FHLBank of Des 
Moines. 
This report presents actions that FHFA 
plans to take in support of its vision for the 
FHLBank System.  These actions, discussed 
in the sections that follow, are organized 
under four broad themes: (i) Mission of the 
FHLBank System; (ii) Stable and Reliable 
Source of Liquidity; (iii) Housing and 
Community Development; and (iv) FHLBank 
System Operational Efficiency, Structure, and 
Governance.  

23
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
Photo courtesy of Nevada HAND, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: 
Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 

24
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
1932
Federal Home Loan Bank Act creates 
FHLBanks and the FHLBB as regulator of 
the FHLBank System; FHLBB charters 12 
regional FHLBanks
1933
Banking Act of 1933 establishes the FDIC
Home Owners' Loan Act directs FHLBB  
to create and oversee HOLC and  
authorizes FHLBB to begin chartering  
and regulating federal thrifts
1934
National Housing  
Act creates FHA,  
which over time  
leads to the 30-year  
self-amortizing 
mortgage; creates  
FSLIC under  
direction of the  
FHLBB to provide  
deposit insurance  
for thrifts
1937
FHLBank  
System issues  
first  
consolidated  
obligations
1951
FHLBank System 
retires federal 
government stock 
held from inception 
1944
Servicemen's 
Readjustment Act 
(G.I. Bill) creates the 
VA loan guaranty 
program
1946
FHLBank of Los  
Angeles merged with 
FHLBank of Portland  
to create FHLBank of 
San Francisco,  
reducing System to  
11 FHLBanks
1963
FHLBank of San Francisco split into 
two Banks: FHLBank of San Francisco 
and and FHLBank of Spokane (later 
Seattle), increasing System to 12 
FHLBanks
1965
Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Act creates HUD
1970
Emergency Home Finance Act of 1970 
provides $250 million to the FHLBB for 
distribution to FHLBanks for subsidizing 
interest rates on advances to spur  
home construction
1968
Fair Housing Act (Title VIII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968) prohibits  
discrimination in housing access on  
the basis of race, religion, sex, national 
origin, familial status, or disability
Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968 creates Ginnie Mae; provides 
subsidies for low- and  
moderate-income housing and  
community redevelopment
1930s 1940s-50s 1960s-70s
1929- 
1939 
Great 
Depression
1938 
Fannie 
Mae 
created
1941- 
1945 
United States 
engaged in 
World War II
1954 
HOLC 
decommissioned
1964 
Civil Rights 
Act signed
1968 
Fannie Mae 
privatized
1970 
Freddie Mac 
created

25
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
I. BACKGROUND TO FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100: FOCUSING ON THE FUTURE
1982
Garn St. Germain Depository 
Institutions Act eliminates  
statutory restrictions on collateral  
the FHLBanks may accept
1989
FIRREA creates AHP , CIP , CICA;  
creates RTC and RefCorp (funded by 
FHLBanks) to resolve troubled  
thrifts; establishes requirements for 
long-term advances and limits  
advances to members that do not 
qualify as QTLs
Commercial banks and credit unions 
eligible to become FHLBank  
members (if at least 10% of assets  
are in residential mortgage loans)
2008
HERA creates FHFA by combining  
FHFB and OFHEO; gives FHLBank 
members authority to elect their 
independent directors; authorizes 
FHLBanks to merge voluntarily; 
establishes affordable housing goals
2010
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act overhauls 
financial regulation; creates the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  
and eliminates OTS
2015
FHLBank of Seattle voluntarily merges 
into FHLBank of Des Moines, reducing 
System to 11 FHLBanks
Non-federally-insured credit unions 
eligible to become FHLBank members
2004
Finance Board 
issues rule  
requiring FHLBanks 
to register stock 
with the SEC 
(codified in statute 
in 2008)
2008
CDFIs eligible to 
become FHLBank 
members
1980s 1990s 2000s-10s
1986- 
1995 
Savings and 
Loan Crisis
2007- 
2008 
Global 
Financial 
Crisis
2007- 
2010 
United 
States 
Mortgage 
Crisis
1989
FSLIC dissolved; 
Freddie Mac 
privatized
2008
Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac placed in 
conservatorship
1992
Federal Housing  
Enterprises Financial  
Safety and Soundness Act 
of 1992 creates OFHEO as a 
division of HUD and  
mandates Enterprise goals  
for low-income and 
underserved community 
investment
HCDA mandates 
comprehensive studies of  
the FHLBanks, which give  
rise to recommendations, 
several of which eventually 
lead to statutory changes
1999
Federal Home Loan Bank 
System Modernization Act 
modifies Bank Act  
provisions including on  
capital structure of the 
FHLBanks; makes  
membership voluntary for  
all institutions; modifies  
the FHLBanks' RefCorp  
payment obligation;  
eliminates QTL provisions
2022
FHFA launches FHLBank System at  
100: Focusing on the Future Initiative

26
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
II. MISSION OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM
A mission statement for the FHLBank System 
should explicitly reflect the purpose, intention, 
and overall objective of the System.  Among 
other things, it should provide a basis for 
evaluating the FHLBanks’ ability to meet 
mission objectives in a safe and sound 
manner and serve as a reliable source of 
low-cost financing in support of housing and 
community development.  FHLBank members 
that demonstrate a meaningful commitment 
to the overall mission of the FHLBanks should 
receive the greatest benefit from the System.
Clarify the FHLBank Mission 
The Bank Act does not explicitly describe 
the mission of the FHLBanks.  The Federal 
Housing Finance Board (Finance Board), FHFA’s 
predecessor, codified the FHLBanks’ mission 
through its Core Mission Activities (CMA) 
regulation in 2000.
14  The CMA regulation, 
which was subsequently adopted by FHFA, 
expresses the FHLBanks’ mission as “providing 
financial products and services, including 
but not limited to advances” to members to 
14  See 65 FR 25267 (May 1, 2000).
15  See 12 CFR 1265.2.
assist in the financing of “housing, including 
single-family and multi-family housing 
serving consumers at all income levels” and 
“community lending.”
15   This statement links 
the FHLBanks’ role in providing liquidity for 
their members to activities that support 
housing and community development.  FHFA 
plans to develop a clear mission statement 
for the FHLBank System that explicitly 
incorporates the following core objectives: (i) 
provide liquidity to members; and (ii) support 
housing and community development.  These 
core objectives will be explored in greater 
detail in the chapters to follow. 
System at 100: An FHLBank mission 
statement that encompasses the core 
objectives of providing liquidity and support 
for housing and community development.
Provide Liquidity to Members   
Throughout their existence, the FHLBanks 
have provided their members with low-cost 
advances that are fully secured by eligible 
II. MISSION OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM
The shift in the composition of FHLBank membership away from institutions with a strong focus 
on mortgage lending, the broadening of eligible collateral to include non-housing-focused 
assets, and as was made clear from the stakeholder responses, the increasing volume of unmet 
housing and community development needs across the country, have led FHFA to consider the 
FHLBanks’ role in the housing finance system.  In addition, stakeholders expressed differing 
views of the mission of the FHLBank System.  Therefore, clarifying the mission of the FHLBanks 
is a key step in implementing the recommendations arising from the System at 100 initiative.

27
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
II. MISSION OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM
collateral, for general business purposes.  
One purpose of these advances is to serve as 
a liquidity cushion for members in times of 
deposit outflows.  This enables members, and 
particularly smaller members, to continue to 
serve their communities—both as mortgage 
lenders and more generally as financial 
intermediaries.  
Support Housing and Community 
Development 
 
Congress emphasized the importance of 
FHLBank advances supporting housing 
and community development by requiring 
that long-term advances be made only for 
“residential housing finance.” In the case of 
CFI members, advances are also intended 
to provide funds for additional uses such as 
small businesses, small farms, small agri-
businesses, and community development 
activities.
16   The Bank Act also stipulates that 
only those members who meet the “standards 
of community investment or service” under 
the CSR may obtain long-term advances.
17   
These provisions reflect the importance of 
the FHLBanks’ role in supporting housing and 
community development activities through 
their low-cost advance programs.
Advances may also support the housing and 
community development objective, to the 
extent residential mortgage loans, multifamily 
16  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(2). FHFA’s Advances regulation defines a long-term advance as an advance with an original term to 
maturity greater than five years. See 12 CFR 1266.1.
17  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(g).
18     As outlined in AB 2015-05 FHLBank Core Mission Achievement and AB 2018-07 FHLBank Liquidity Guidance, the 
denominator of the ratio is adjusted by subtracting certain U.S. Treasury obligations that qualify as “high quality liquid assets.”
loans, and eligible other real estate-related 
collateral are pledged to secure the advance.  
In addition, this objective captures direct 
purchase of home mortgage loans through the 
FHLBanks’ AMA programs.
The Bank Act also requires the FHLBanks to 
support affordable housing and community 
development through targeted programs.
Enhance Mission Achievement by the 
FHLBanks
FHFA believes that it is important to assess 
mission achievement. 
System at 100: FHLBanks’ mission 
achievement is assessed and FHFA will 
consider a mission examination rating.
 
FHFA’s current evaluation of FHLBank 
performance addresses one component 
outlined above, providing liquidity to 
members, by measuring the ratio of 
an FHLBank’s advances plus AMA to its 
outstanding consolidated obligations.
18   
However, the CMA regulation does not 
include any measures for expected mission 
achievement, and FHFA’s additional CMA 
guidance does not currently fully consider 
support for housing and community 
development activities.  To emphasize the 
importance of all aspects of the mission, 

28
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
II. MISSION OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM
FHFA plans to issue a proposed rule that 
would clarify the mission of the FHLBanks 
and provide metrics and thresholds for 
measuring mission achievement.  FHFA also 
will consider how to incorporate mission 
achievement in a more meaningful way in its 
examination processes, including the potential 
inclusion of a stand-alone mission examination 
rating.  Currently, examination findings and 
conclusions related to mission objectives 
are reflected in multiple examination rating 
components but are only a subset of the 
elements considered in those ratings.  
Unless significant weaknesses are identified, 
achievement of mission objectives receive 
limited acknowledgment in FHFA’s Reports 
of Examination and the composite ratings for 
the FHLBanks.  Compliance with fair lending 
and fair housing laws and equity initiatives 
are not currently assessed in supervisory 
ratings, although FHFA has begun supervisory 
engagement with the FHLBanks concerning 
fair lending and fair housing compliance.  
While the importance of the FHLBanks 
operating in a safe and sound manner cannot 
be overstated, an FHLBank’s support for all 
aspects of its mission should be reflected 
more explicitly in its examination ratings.
Establish Incentive Structure for FHLBank 
Members to Support FHLBank Mission
Congress has vested the FHLBanks with 
certain market advantages that enable 
them to provide low-cost wholesale funding 
and other services to their members.  
Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that 
the benefits of FHLBank membership should 
accrue predominantly to institutions that 
demonstrate a meaningful commitment 
to supporting the housing and community 
development mission of the FHLBanks.  
Currently, FHLBank member engagement in 
mission activities varies widely, largely by 
member type.   
FHLBank Examination Rating
FHFA uses a uniform rating system, similar to those used by other federal financial regulators, when 
conducting examinations of its regulated entities.  FHFA’s regulated entities receive a rating for each 
of the following seven components: capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, sensitivity 
to market risk, and operational risk (CAMELSO).  A composite rating is then derived from the seven 
component ratings.
The findings and conclusions from FHFA’s examinations of the FHLBanks’ affordable housing and 
community development programs are taken into consideration in assigning the management 
component rating and, to a lesser extent, the operational risk component rating.

29
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
II. MISSION OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM
System at 100: Implementation of a 
meaningful framework that recognizes 
members with a strong and demonstrable 
commitment to the mission of the banks. 
To encourage members to increase their 
support for the FHLBank mission, FHFA plans 
to undertake a rulemaking and issue related 
guidance, as appropriate, whereby each 
FHLBank would provide added benefits—such 
as discounted advance rates or differential 
dividends on capital stock—to members with 
a strong and demonstrable connection to the 
FHLBanks’ overall mission.  These incentives 
should be targeted across the FHLBank 
membership, including towards smaller 
institutions.  Any rulemaking and guidance 
would also ensure that eligible FHLBank 
members continue to have reliable access to 
the FHLBank System and that any changes do 
not adversely affect the FHLBanks’ safe and 
sound condition. 
Enhance FHLBank District Needs 
Assessment, Goal Setting, Planning, and 
Reporting
To achieve meaningful results, it is important 
that the FHLBanks are guided by an informed 
and comprehensive assessment of district 
needs and that the planning processes and 
19  FHFA collects and publishes the FHLBanks’ Targeted Community Lending Plans, available at  
https://www.fhfa.gov/programs/affordable-housing/fhlbank-community-lending-plans 
20  By regulation, FHFA requires each FHLBank to adopt a strategic business plan, which, among other things, must include 
a description of how the significant business activities of the FHLBank will achieve its mission and purpose and plans for 
maximizing activities that further the FHLBank’s housing finance and community lending mission. See 
12 CFR 1239.14(a)(1). 
21  See 12 CFR 1291.13(b).  The annual AHP Implementation Plan sets forth how an FHLBank will address the significant 
housing needs in its district under its AHP .
achievements are publicly disclosed.  
System at 100: FHLBanks to publish 
more comprehensive annual reports 
on their affordable housing and 
community development activities that 
include evaluation of outcomes and 
assessments of program effectiveness. 
The FHLBanks currently develop multiple 
documents describing their district needs, 
goals, planning, and reporting.  Specifically, 
each FHLBank publishes an annual Targeted 
Community Lending Plan that identifies 
and assesses significant affordable housing 
and community development needs in 
the FHLBank’s district and describes the 
FHLBank’s strategy for addressing those 
needs.
19   Each FHLBank also develops a 
Strategic Business Plan20 and prepares an 
annual AHP Implementation Plan.21  The 
FHLBanks’ Affordable Housing Advisory 
Councils publish annual reports that describe 
the FHLBanks’ affordable housing and 
community development activities over the 
past year.  However, each of these documents 
is limited in scope.  Therefore, FHFA will 
provide guidance to the FHLBanks and 
subsequently initiate a rulemaking to enhance 
the requirements for Targeted Community 

30
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
II. MISSION OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM
Lending Plans in its CSR regulation22  to make 
them more comprehensive and transparent.  
This includes incorporating advances, activities 
under AMA and affordable housing and 
community development programs, and other 
business activities. 
22  See 12 CFR 1290.6(a)(5).
FHFA will also provide guidance to the 
FHLBanks on developing approaches for 
evaluating outcomes, assessing program 
effectiveness, and enhancing public reporting. 
FHFA will also require the FHLBanks to post 
the plans and performance reports on their 
public websites.
Photo courtesy of Nevada HAND, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing 
on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 

31
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
To ensure that access continues, it will be 
important to address weaknesses in the 
FHLBanks’ oversight of members’ liquidity and 
credit risk management that were evidenced 
in the March 2023 bank failures.  This will 
ensure that the FHLBanks continue to be a 
reliable and stable source of liquidity, but 
that they do not — and are not perceived to 
— serve as lenders of last resort.  In addition, 
enhancements to stress testing requirements 
and a more frequent periodic review of 
retained earnings policies would ensure that 
the FHLBanks remain sufficiently capitalized to 
withstand losses from the failure of member 
institutions as well as any emerging risks, 
including climate risk.  
Ensure FHLBanks are not the Lender of 
Last Resort
The FHLBanks’ advance activity is funded 
primarily by the issuance of bonds and short-
term notes, and there are practical limits to 
the amounts that the FHLBanks can issue 
in a single day.  When member demand for 
advances is high, these limitations can become 
acute, particularly late in the day when debt 
markets have slowed or closed.  
System at 100: FHLBanks have protocols and 
agreements in place for members to borrow 
from the Federal Reserve discount window.
The FHLBanks can better serve their members 
if they coordinate with their large depository 
institution members and the members’ 
prudential regulators to make certain that 
these members have established protocols to 
meet their emergency liquidity needs from 
the Federal Reserve discount window when 
necessary.  Ensuring that the FHLBanks are not 
acting as lenders of last resort for institutions 
in weakened financial condition will allow the 
FHLBanks to use their available liquidity to 
provide financing to all members so they can 
continue to serve their communities.
During the 2023 market stress caused by 
multiple regional bank failures, it became 
apparent that several large depository 
members were effectively using the 
FHLBanks as their lender of last resort.  
These members did not have agreements 
in place or collateral positioned to borrow 
from the Federal Reserve discount window.  
Accordingly, FHFA will provide guidance to 
the FHLBanks to work with their members 
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
The FHLBank System was established to provide a stable and reliable source of liquidity for its 
members, and the FHLBanks have successfully fulfilled this function over the history of their 
existence.  Access to low-cost liquidity has been particularly important for smaller, community-
based organizations with limited access to the capital markets.  

32
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
and the members’ primary federal regulators 
to ensure all large depository members have 
established protocols to borrow from the 
Federal Reserve discount window so that 
these institutions’ borrowing needs continue 
to be met.  Additionally, FHFA expects 
the FHLBanks to negotiate appropriate 
agreements with the regional Federal Reserve 
Banks to ensure expedited movement of 
collateral if a member’s lending activity must 
be moved to the Federal Reserve discount 
window.  
Preserve Debt Issuance Benefits for all 
Members
System at 100: Debt issuance activity is 
well managed to ensure all members have 
access to the same low borrowing rates.
The FHLBanks’ success in serving their mission 
is driven by their ability to issue debt at rates 
only slightly higher than those on comparable 
U.S. Treasury (Treasury) instruments.  
Minimizing their debt issuance cost
23 allows 
the FHLBanks to pass benefits to members in 
the form of favorable advance pricing (relative 
to other funding sources) since the debt 
issuance cost is the core driver of advance 
pricing.
24  However, debt issuance costs are 
affected by volume.  A large debt issuance 
to fund advances for a single FHLBank could 
lead to suboptimal pricing of advances and 
may even increase advance pricing for all 
23  In this report, the debt issuance cost refers to the all-in cost of debt.
24  See 12 CFR 1266.5(b)(1)(i).
FHLBank members.  For example, in June 
2022, a large debt issuance with a three-week 
maturity distorted the cost of similar advances 
for several days, adversely affecting several 
FHLBanks.  Members subsequently either 
withdrew their funding requests or shifted 
to a different maturity point.  This issuance 
highlighted the need to adjust current 
processes to ensure that FHLBanks can reliably 
provide liquidity at a low cost to all members, 
not just one large member. 
To ensure the FHLBanks issue debt in a 
manner that accounts for the negative effects 
that a single large borrower could have on the 
activity of all members, FHFA plans to take 
steps to limit large issuances that unduly raise 
debt clearing costs or debt issuance activity. 
Improve FHLBanks’ Ability to Meet Short-
Term Liquidity Needs
Besides issuing debt, the FHLBanks can meet 
members’ short-term liquidity needs using 
funds held in their deposit accounts at the 
Federal Reserve or in their interest-bearing 
deposit accounts (IBDAs) at large domestic 
banks.  In some circumstances, they may 
also borrow fed funds, typically from another 
FHLBank.  
System at 100: Limits on maximum exposure 
on unsecured extensions of credit are similar 
for overnight assets of similar risk profile.

33
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
Because FHLBanks cannot earn interest on deposits at the Federal Reserve by statute, over the 
past five years the FHLBanks have increased their use of overnight IBDAs with large domestic 
banks that have high credit ratings (See Figure 12).  However, FHFA’s regulations limit the 
maximum exposure on unsecured extensions of credit that an FHLBank may have with an 
individual counterparty, and this applies to the FHLBanks’ deposits with large members.
25   The 
regulations provide for a higher credit limit for overnight fed funds sales, the primary overnight 
investment used when the regulation was last amended, relative to other types of overnight 
investments.  Since IBDAs have less than a one-day maturity, it is reasonable that they receive 
similar treatment in the regulation to overnight fed funds sales.  
Accordingly, FHFA will seek to enable the FHLBanks to better manage intra-day liquidity and 
respond to member requests.  FHFA plans to undertake a rulemaking to amend its regulation 
establishing limits on unsecured extensions of credit to provide deposits held in IBDAs at highly-
rated banks with the higher limit that currently applies only to overnight fed funds.  
25  See 12 CFR 1277.7.
FIGURE 12: INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSIT ACCOUNT AVERAGE DAILY OUTSTANDING BALANCE
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023

34
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
Strengthen Member Risk Management 
Safe and sound execution of a member’s 
request for liquidity requires that an FHLBank 
first evaluate the member’s ability to repay 
the funds.  While pledged collateral may 
protect an FHLBank against the risk of loss, it 
serves only as a backup source of repayment 
if the member cannot repay an advance.  It is 
also important that an FHLBank make a timely 
assessment of any deterioration in a member’s 
financial condition to ensure that it deploys 
appropriate risk mitigation measures, such as 
reductions in credit limits, delivery of pledged 
collateral, frequent valuation of collateral, 
reduction in the maturity of the advances, 
and active communication with the member’s 
primary regulator when warranted. 
System at 100: Robust mechanisms 
to identify deteriorating member 
financial condition in a timely manner.
 
FHFA is initiating multiple actions to 
strengthen member risk management and 
ensure the FHLBank System remains safe and 
sound.  These actions will also reduce the FDIC 
and NCUA’s collateral disposition cost where a 
failed member is a bank, thrift, or credit union.  
To date, when an FDIC-insured depository 
member has failed, the FDIC-as-receiver has 
always chosen to pay off the failed member’s 
advances and any related fees due in exchange 
for a release of collateral.
26   While this may 
26  The FDIC is required to choose the least cost resolution option.  See 12 U.S.C. 1823(c)(4).
not result in losses for the FHLBanks, the 
ultimate losses increase the cost of resolution 
for the FDIC and are borne by other parts of 
the financial system.
Improve Member Creditworthiness 
Evaluation
Member credit evaluations at the FHLBanks 
assess a member’s ability to repay advances.  
The market disruptions in March 2023 
exposed weaknesses in the member credit 
evaluations by certain FHLBanks that impeded 
adequate anticipation and management of the 
risk of potential member failures.  As a result, 
FHFA has communicated its expectation that 
the FHLBanks revisit their policies, procedures, 
and systems for evaluating the financial 
condition of members.  In addition, FHFA will 
issue updated guidance related to ongoing 
evaluations of member credit with the goal of 
the FHLBanks working with their members and 
their members’ primary regulators to identify 
concerns before they precipitate impairment 
of a member’s ability to receive advances. 
However, the FHLBanks should work with their 
members’ primary regulators and establish 
protocols for timely communication when 
there is a material decline in a member’s 
financial condition, or when regulators 
determine that new advances to that 
member would be counterproductive.  In 
addition, FHFA will enhance its oversight of 
the FHLBanks’ credit risk evaluation of their 
members.  FHFA encourages the FHLBanks to 

35
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
work with each other and share expertise to 
develop mechanisms to identify deteriorating 
member financial condition in a timely 
manner.
Deny or Limit Advances for Members with 
Insufficient Capital
Insufficient capital or undercapitalization 
can lead to failure, and liquidity should only 
be provided to members with low capital if 
there is full involvement and concurrence of 
the member’s primary regulator.  Currently, 
FHFA’s Advances regulation prohibits the 
FHLBanks from making new advances or 
renewing outstanding advances for a term 
greater than 30 days to a member without 
positive tangible capital unless the member’s 
prudential regulator requests in writing 
that the FHLBank make the advance.
27   The 
Finance Board adopted this provision 
because it was concerned that an FHLBank 
could inadvertently contravene the wishes 
of a member’s primary federal regulator by 
making advances available to capital deficient 
members.
28   
Beginning in 2022, several stakeholders 
requested that FHFA waive this regulatory 
requirement, given the volume of unrealized 
losses on depository members’ securities 
holdings that was not recognized in regulatory 
capital, but which was reflected in FHFA’s 
27  See 12 CFR 1266.4(b)(1), (c)(2).
28  See 59 FR 2945, 2946 (Jan. 20, 1994).
29  For the last decade, prudential bank supervisors have allowed most depositories to opt out from including “Accumulated 
Other Comprehensive Income” within their regulatory capital calculations. See, e.g., 12 CFR 324.22(b) and 79 FR 20754, 20757 
(Apr. 14, 2014) (FDIC regulation and final rule on AOCI opt-outs).
regulatory measure of tangible capital.29  At 
the end of 2022, the banking industry had 
more than $600 billion in unrealized losses 
arising from its securities holdings.  FHFA 
declined to waive the requirement, concluding 
that its regulatory definition of tangible 
capital was an appropriately conservative 
measure and already allowed the primary 
federal regulator to request an exception as 
appropriate.  
The extension of advances to members 
without positive tangible capital would 
heighten both the credit risk exposure to an 
FHLBank as well as the potential losses to the 
FDIC or the NCUA in the case of a member’s 
failure.  Moreover, as discussed above, the 
FHLBanks are not designed or equipped to 
take on the function of the lender of last 
resort.  FHFA plans to retain this regulatory 
requirement and to review and strengthen 
its policies and guidance to limit access to 
advances for members with insufficient 
capital.  FHFA also plans to reinforce its 
guidance that the FHLBanks work with the 
member’s primary federal regulator in these 
situations.

36
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
Study FHLBank Advance Prepayment Fee 
Requirements for Members in Weakened 
Financial Condition
FHFA requires by regulation that each 
FHLBank charge its members prepayment 
fees on most advances with a maturity of 
more than six months to make the FHLBank 
financially indifferent to the borrower’s 
decision to prepay an advance prior to its 
maturity date.
30  This requirement protects 
the FHLBank System’s financial condition by 
reducing the FHLBanks’ exposure to interest 
rate and reinvestment risks.  The regulation 
provides that an FHLBank may choose to 
waive a prepayment fee if it will not result in 
an economic loss to the FHLBank. 
The prepayment fee requirement applies 
even when a borrowing member fails, and in 
the case of depository members, the receiver 
pays off FHLBank advances and related fees 
in exchange for a release of collateral.  This 
requirement may increase the cost of the 
failure—either directly when the fee is paid 
by the FDIC or NCUA, or indirectly when an 
acquiring institution pays a lower acquisition 
amount (to the FDIC or NCUA) for a failed 
institution to offset the prepayment fees.  
FHFA will initiate a study of the FHLBank 
System’s treatment of prepayment fees for 
certain situations.  As a result, FHFA may 
consider initiating a rulemaking to amend the 
Advances regulation to make the FHLBank 
30  See 12 CFR 1266.6(b).
31  See 12 U.S.C. 1426(a)(4), (d)(1), (d)(2)(B).
or the FHLBank System responsible for 
prepayment fees due from a failed member on 
long-term advances provided shortly before 
the member fails and without consultation 
with the primary federal regulator. This would 
allow the FHLBanks to continue to provide 
liquidity to their members but also provide 
an incentive for them to improve their due 
diligence before making new advances to 
members experiencing financial difficulties.  
Strengthen Capital Management
A sufficient level of capital is necessary to 
ensure that an entity can absorb potential 
losses and meet unexpected obligations.  The 
FHLBanks’ capital structure primarily consists 
of capital stock, which is required by statute 
to be redeemed and repurchased at par,  and 
retained earnings.  While an FHLBank’s capital 
stock may be used for loss absorption in an 
adverse event, this could result in the FHLBank 
breaching its capital requirements and being 
unable to redeem or repurchase capital stock 
at par.
31  Thus, the requirement to redeem 
capital stock at par effectively means the 
FHLBanks must maintain sufficient retained 
earnings to absorb losses in all but the most 
severe circumstances. 
Retained Earnings Policies
The FHLBanks currently satisfy all statutory 
and regulatory capital requirements and 
continue to build retained earnings.  FHLBank 
capital requirements are governed by statute 

37
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
and FHFA regulations,32  but the level of retained earnings is based on each FHLBank’s retained 
earnings policy.33   Each FHLBank has a retained earnings policy that provides for the assessment 
of the risk of losses under alternative scenarios and the establishment of a minimum amount of 
retained earnings sufficient to cover such losses (and protect the par value of the capital stock). 
Despite the overall growth in retained earnings across the System over the past 20 years 
(see Figure 13), individual FHLBanks may need to continue to grow their retained earnings to 
mitigate against the risk of capital stock impairment.  FHFA plans to instruct the FHLBanks to 
re-evaluate and update their retained earnings policies, including their methodologies and 
assumptions, on a regular basis.  Based on these updated policies, FHFA will take additional 
steps, as necessary, to ensure each FHLBank remains in a strong capital position. 
FIGURE 13: RETAINED EARNINGS
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023
Institute Annual Assessment and Disclosure of FHLBank Stress Testing 
The market stress in early 2023 underscores the need for the FHLBanks to enhance their stress 
testing.  Stress testing and public disclosure of stress test results give the public confidence that 
an entity’s capital is sufficient to absorb losses and support operations during adverse economic 
conditions.  FHFA requires the FHLBanks to employ stress testing in their management of 
capital,
34  liquidity, interest rate, and credit risk, and has provided guidance for conducting these 
32  See 12 U.S.C. 1426; 12 CFR part 1277.
33  AB 2003-08 (Capital Management and Retained Earnings) provides guidance that each FHLBank should specifically assess 
the adequacy of its retained earnings in light of alternative possible future financial and economic scenarios.
34  See 12 CFR 1277.4(g), .5(b).

38
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
stress tests.35   Stress testing for the regulatory 
requirement of risk-based capital is reported 
to FHFA and to the public at an aggregated 
level (total risk-based capital for each 
FHLBank) in the Combined Financial Report.  
FHFA reviews the FHLBanks’ internal stress 
testing through examination and supervision 
processes. 
As the collective FHLBank System is significant 
in size, public perception of its viability adds 
to the confidence in the overall financial 
system.  FHFA plans to initiate a rulemaking 
to require certain stress testing protocols for 
the FHLBanks.  FHFA will propose adjusting the 
scenarios published by the Federal Reserve, 
as warranted, to reflect the risks present in 
the FHLBank System, which may differ in 
some ways from the risks faced by financial 
institutions that are subject to stress testing 
under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act.
36 
35  Specifically, AB 2018-07 Federal Home Loan Bank Liquidity Guidance provides for annual liquidity stress testing, AB 2018-
09 Interest Rate Risk Management provides for periodic stress testing of interest rate risk, and AB 2018-02 Federal Home Loan 
Bank Use of Models and Methodologies for Internal Assessments of Mortgage Asset Credit Risk describes minimally acceptable 
criteria for a macroeconomic stress scenario to be used in assessing mortgage asset credit risk. Prudential Management and 
Operations Standard 4, Management of Market Risk—Measurement Systems, Risk Limits, Stress Testing, and Monitoring and 
Reporting; and Standard 5, Adequacy and Maintenance of Liquidity and Reserves (Appendix to 12 CFR part 1236) also address 
stress testing.
36  Assets vary significantly across FHLBanks and over time due primarily to their capacity and flexibility to provide advances 
to members during market disruptions.  Tailoring the scenarios to address this structural feature of the FHLBanks could provide 
a more meaningful test of their response to market disruptions.
Prioritize Climate Resiliency and Improve 
Climate Risk Assessments
System at 100: Climate risk incorporated into 
credit evaluations.
Climate change is impacting the U.S. housing 
finance system in a number of ways, including 
higher insurance costs on properties in 
areas at greater risk of damage due to 
natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, flooding, 
wildfires).  The FHLBanks’ assets are supported 
by collateral whose value could materially 
decrease from events caused or made more 
severe by climate change.  It is therefore 
important that the FHLBanks assess risks 
related to climate and natural disasters on 
the FHLBanks’ businesses, their members, 
and the communities they serve.  FHFA plans 
to issue guidance for the FHLBanks to begin 
incorporating climate resiliency efforts into 
their core businesses, as well as in their AHP 
and voluntary and pilot programs.  Some 
FHLBanks have already included climate 
resiliency in their AHP scoring criteria, 
homeownership set-aside programs, and 
voluntary or pilot programs.

39
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
III. STABLE AND RELIABLE SOURCE OF LIQUIDITY
Like many financial institutions, the FHLBanks 
are in the early stages of understanding 
the effects of climate risk on their lines of 
business.  A key first step to evaluating their 
exposure to climate risk is to obtain and 
understand the relevant data.  The next step 
involves analyzing the data and modeling 
scenarios to determine how to incorporate 
climate risk into their risk management 
frameworks and their targeted housing and 
community development programs.  This will 
ensure that the FHLBanks’ programs support 
energy efficient and disaster resilient practices 
in new construction and retrofits, and that 
their activities help low-income households 
absorb the upfront costs needed to enhance 
resiliency and energy efficiency in a safe and 
sound manner. 
Photo courtesy of NeighborWorks Boise, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: 
Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 

40
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
To improve the ability of the FHLBanks to 
impact housing and community development, 
FHFA intends to ensure the FHLBanks are 
effectively engaging with mission-oriented 
organizations.  Additionally, FHFA will work 
with the FHLBanks to ensure collateral 
and advances are supporting housing and 
community development and will recommend 
to Congress that the FHLBanks provide 
additional funding support for the AHP .  The 
System should also consider opportunities to 
expand its support of housing and community 
development through pilot and voluntary 
programs and through greater involvement 
in multifamily activities and single-family 
purchase programs.
Increase Support to Mission-Oriented 
Organizations
FHLBank lending supports community-
based organizations with limited access to 
the secondary or debt markets.  Today, this 
37  CDFIs include prudentially regulated insured depository institutions such as community development banks and credit 
unions, and non-prudentially regulated institutions like loan and venture capital funds.
38  See https://www.cdfifund.gov/sites/cdfi/files/documents/cdfi_infographic_v08a.pdf.
support is well-established for community 
banks and credit unions, including depository 
CDFIs.
37    
System at 100: Consistent and 
uniform support for non-depository 
CDFIs, including outreach to promote 
their engagement with the System.
Non-depository CDFIs specialize in providing 
financial services in low-income and tribal 
communities, helping families finance their 
first homes, providing support to community 
residents running their own businesses, and 
investing in local health centers, schools, 
and community centers.
38  However, these 
institutions have struggled to become 
members of the FHLBank System, and those 
that have attained membership have faced 
difficulties accessing FHLBank products and 
services.  There are nearly 600 non-depository 
CDFIs operating nationwide, but only 70 
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Improving safe and sound access to affordable housing and investing in community 
development is an effective strategy for building strong and sustainable communities.  The 
primary means by which FHLBank lending supports housing is through the acceptance of 
housing-related collateral to secure advances.  Through the establishment of the AHP and CIP , 
Congress also directed the FHLBanks to provide funding for affordable housing and community 
development in their districts beyond their support for housing through advances.  In addition, 
regulatory actions codified the FHLBanks’ ability to purchase mortgages through AMA programs 
and their ability to make long-term advances for community lending activities through CICA 
requirements.  

41
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
are FHLBank members, and only 28 had 
outstanding advances as of the second quarter 
of 2023.
According to some stakeholders, challenges for 
CDFIs in accessing the benefits of membership 
include the FHLBanks’ lack of familiarity with 
the business models of these institutions, 
along with a lack of sufficient real estate-
related assets to pledge as collateral.  Under 
the Bank Act, CDFIs cannot use most non-
housing community development collateral—
often the majority of a CDFI’s collateral—to 
secure advances.
Cooperativas, many of which are certified as 
CDFIs, are Puerto Rican credit unions that 
provide funding to local communities and 
underserved households.  Many Cooperativas 
also have experienced challenges in joining 
the FHLBank System.
39   Cooperativas are not 
federally insured depositories, as they are 
instead insured and supervised by the Public 
Corporation for the Supervision and Insurance 
of Cooperatives (COSSEC) in Puerto Rico.  
While some Cooperativas may be eligible for 
FHLBank membership under the provisions 
of FHFA’s regulations, no Cooperativa has 
become a member of the FHLBank System.
39  Cooperativas de ahorro y crédito (Cooperativas) are member-owned financial institutions in Puerto Rico, with a presence 
in nearly all the island’s 78 municipalities.  Cooperativas mainly serve local communities and low- and moderate-income 
households, supporting financial inclusion, asset-building, and community development.  They also provide financing to support 
investments in residential resiliency to extreme weather events.  Today, the nearly 100 Cooperativas in Puerto Rico have more 
than 1 million members, roughly one-third of the island’s population.  As of March 2023, they held nearly $12 billion in assets, 
including $1.6 billion in mortgages.
40  The CDFI Fund of the U.S. Department of the Treasury establishes criteria for CDFI certification, with a central requirement 
being that the financial institution must have a primary mission of promoting community development.  See 12 CFR 1805.201(b)
(1). However, the CDFI Fund is not a prudential regulator.
While FHFA plans to provide a regulatory 
interpretation to clarify how Cooperativas may 
qualify for FHLBank membership, FHFA does 
not believe there is a need for deviation from 
standard practices for membership eligibility 
and credit evaluation.
FHFA may require the FHLBanks to coordinate 
their evaluations of CDFIs and other mission-
oriented organizations and to develop prudent 
means of lending to these entities.  The 
FHLBanks should revisit advance product 
offerings and member lending and collateral 
requirements, since these determine the 
extent to which members may benefit from 
the access to liquidity afforded by FHLBank 
membership.  For example, FHLBanks 
sometimes require larger haircuts on CDFI 
collateral, in part because many CDFIs do not 
have a federal or state prudential regulator 
and have lengthier resolution periods in the 
event of bankruptcy.
40   The FHLBanks could 
also consider developing alternative credit 
support programs to address potential safety 
and soundness risks as a complement to 
improved collateral haircut and collateral 
management policies and to enhance access 
to advances. 

42
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FHFA will also encourage the FHLBanks to 
facilitate relationships between their non-
depository mission-oriented members and 
their depository members.  For example, non-
depository CDFIs could offer their expertise 
in addressing the needs of underserved 
communities, thereby facilitating the ability 
of depository institution members to deliver 
products outside of their typical offerings.  In 
turn, CDFIs could receive increased access to 
financing from these depository members. 
Establish Mission-Oriented Collateral 
Programs
System at 100: A fully transparent FHLBank 
Mission-oriented Collateral Program.
The evolution of the FHLBanks’ collateral 
requirements reflects the policy objectives 
of Congress and FHFA (or its predecessor 
agencies).  This has resulted in a broad 
range of collateral that is eligible to secure 
advances, including home mortgages, U.S. 
government securities, MBS, and other real 
estate-related collateral meeting certain safety 
and soundness requirements.
41  Eligible CFI 
collateral also includes secured loans for small 
business, agriculture, or community 
41  See 12 CFR 1266.7(a).
42  See 12 CFR 1266.7(b).
development, or securities representing a 
whole interest in such secured loans.
42
While FHFA regulations set forth general 
collateral eligibility requirements, each 
FHLBank establishes its own practices 
regarding acceptability, market valuations, 
valuation caps, and haircuts for each collateral 
type.  These practices differ by FHLBank based 
on risk appetite, and are influenced by factors 
including member type, member rating, and 
haircut methodologies and assumptions.  To 
enhance lending in support of housing and 
community development, FHFA expects each 
FHLBank to develop, in a safe and sound 
manner, a Mission-Oriented Collateral (MOC) 
program that incentivizes the use of collateral 
with a strong connection to the mission of 
the FHLBank System.  FHFA encourages the 
FHLBanks to study the options suggested 
during the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing 
on the Future initiative and work together 
when developing their MOC programs.  FHFA 
will review all MOC program proposals and will 
consider rulemaking to update its regulations 
and guidance as warranted.  To provide more 
transparency on collateral pledged by FHLBank 
members, FHFA intends to include a discussion 
of the amount and types of MOC pledged in 
the Report on Collateral Pledged to FHLBanks.

43
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future43
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future 43
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
For much of the early history of the FHLBank 
System, eligible advance collateral was 
limited to home mortgage loans.  Under the 
original Bank Act, home mortgages having 
no more than 15 years to maturity and an 
underlying real estate value of $20,000 or 
less were eligible.
43  However, Congress gave 
favorable treatment to amortized loans with 
an original term of eight years or more by 
allowing members to borrow against a higher 
percentage of the unpaid principal balance 
and underlying real estate value than was 
available on advances secured by other types 
of loans.
44   The maximum term to maturity 
of eligible mortgage collateral increased over 
the years—to 20 years in 1935,
45  25 years 
in 1947,46  and 30 years in 1964,47  both to 
encourage the creation of mortgages having 
those characteristics and to reflect evolving 
market norms.
48   The dollar limit on mortgage 
collateral also changed, increasing five times 
between 1932 and 1982, until it was removed 
entirely in 1987.
49   Since 1935, the FHLBanks 
have been permitted to accept as collateral any 
obligations of the United States or guaranteed 
43  See Federal Home Loan Bank Act, Pub L. No. 72-304, § 10(b), 47 Stat. 725, 732 (1932).
44  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 10(a), 47 Stat. 732.
45  See Pub. L. No. 74-76, § 6, 49 Stat. 293, 295 (1935).
46  See Pub. L. No. 80-311, 61 Stat. 714 (1947).
47  See Pub. L. No. 88–560, § 906, 78 Stat. 769, 805 (1964).
48  H. Rept. 1703 on H.R. 12175, Aug. 5, 1964, p. 29 (Housing Act of 1964).
49  See Pub. L. No. 74-76, § 6, 49 Stat. 293, 295 (1935); Pub. L. No. 83-560, § 502, 68 Stat. 590, 634 (1954); Pub. L. No.  88–
560, § 906, 78 Stat. 769, 805 (1964); Pub. L. No. 93–449, § 4(c), 88 Stat. 1364, 1367 (1974); Pub. L. No. 95–128, §  406, 91 Stat. 
1111, 1137 (1977); Pub. L. No. 97–320, § 352, 96 Stat. 1469, 1507 (1982); Pub. L. No. 100–86, § 105, 101 Stat. 575, 601 (1987).
50  See Pub. L. No. 74-76, § 5, 49 Stat. 294-95.
51  See Pub. L. No. 97–320, § 352, 96 Stat. 1507.
52  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 714, 103 Stat. 419-20.
53  See Pub. L. No. 106-102, § 604(b), 113 Stat. 1338, 1451 (1999).
54  See Housing and Economic Recovery Act, Pub. L. No. 110-289, § 1211, 122 Stat. 2654, 2790 (2008).
by the United States.50  
In 1982, after changes in the law allowed 
member thrift institutions to expand into more 
diverse investments, Congress eliminated 
all restrictions on eligible collateral, allowing 
each FHLBank to make advances “upon such 
security as [the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board] may prescribe.”
51 However, in 1989, 
Congress once again limited the range of 
eligible collateral.  In addition to first mortgages 
and U.S. government securities, FHLBanks were 
authorized to accept securities representing 
a whole interest in first mortgages and “other 
real estate-related collateral” acceptable to 
the FHLBank and meeting certain safety and 
soundness requirements.
52  
In 1999, Congress authorized the FHLBanks to 
accept a broader range of assets as collateral 
for advances to CFIs, including secured loans 
for small business or agriculture, or securities 
representing a whole interest in such secured 
loans.
53   In 2008, Congress added secured loans 
for community development activities to the 
list of eligible collateral for CFIs. 
54  
A BRIEF HISTORY OF ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL

44
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Once an FHLBank’s MOC program is approved 
and established, FHFA expects the FHLBank 
to work with its members to encourage their 
use of MOC, find risk mitigants for less-liquid, 
non-standard, or unique MOC, and improve 
transparency of collateral practices.
55
Grant Authority for CDFI and Credit Union 
Members to Pledge CFI Collateral 
 
The Bank Act provides insured depository 
institutions that meet the statutory definition 
of a CFI with certain advantages with respect 
to the range of collateral they may pledge to 
secure FHLBank advances relative to other 
member types.  The statute permits FHLBanks 
to accept a wider range of eligible collateral 
from CFI members, including small business 
loans, small farm loans, small agri-business 
loans, community development loans, and 
securities representing a whole interest in 
such loans.
56  While these types of loans 
are not directly connected to housing, they 
support the communities where people live 
and provide stability to housing markets.
The Bank Act and FHFA’s Advances regulation 
define a CFI as an institution that has 
average total assets below the statutory 
cap and whose deposits are insured by the 
FDIC.
57   While the vast majority of non-
depository CDFIs—which are mission-focused 
institutions—and credit unions have assets 
55  Currently, some FHLBanks publish selected collateral eligibility criteria and/or haircuts on their public websites, and some 
provide more information on internal member platforms. 
56  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(3)(E).
57  See 12 U.S.C. 1422(10); 12 CFR 1263.1.
58  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(2).
below the statutory cap, they do not qualify 
as CFIs and are therefore unable to pledge 
CFI collateral because their deposits are not 
insured by the FDIC.  FHFA recommends that 
Congress amend the Bank Act to authorize 
all CDFI and credit union members with 
assets below the statutory cap to pledge CFI 
collateral to secure FHLBank advances, which 
will enable the FHLBanks to better fulfill their 
mission of supporting housing and community 
development.
Increased Mission-Focused Advances 
Advances are available in a wide variety of 
structures and terms.  While the Bank Act 
places no restrictions on the use of short-term 
advances, it requires that a long-term advance 
only be made for the purposes of providing 
funds for residential housing finance, or for 
small business, small farm, small agri-business, 
and community development activities in the 
case of CFIs.
58   
System at 100:  Revised definition of 
“long-term advance” that promotes use of 
FHLBank advances for purposes consistent 
with the mission of the FHLBank System.
Because advances are not earmarked for 
specific purposes, this statutory requirement 
is implemented in FHFA’s Advances regulation 
through a “proxy test.”  This test requires 

45
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
an FHLBank to determine that the principal 
amount of the member’s total long-term 
advances does not exceed the book value of 
its “residential housing finance assets” prior 
to approving an application for a long-term 
advance.
59    FHFA’s regulations exempt loans 
that provide financing under the CICA program 
from the proxy test because these advances 
clearly are for mission purposes. 
The Bank Act does not define “long-term 
advance” and leaves that determination to 
the FHLBanks’ regulator.  In its Advances 
regulation, FHFA has defined the term as an 
advance with an original term to maturity 
greater than five years.
60   In contrast, FHFA’s 
CSR regulation defines “long-term advance” 
as an advance with a term to maturity greater 
than one year.
61   
59  See 12 CFR 1266.3.
60  See 12 CFR 1266.1. For CFI members, “residential housing finance assets” are defined to include small business loans, 
small farm loans, small agri-business loans, or community development loans.
61  See 12 CFR 1290.1.
62  FHFA recognizes that such a change could lead to a change in behavior by the FHLBanks and their members. Changing 
the definition of “long-term advance” could also influence the FHLBanks’ issuance of CICA advances, as an application for CICA 
advances is exempt from the proxy test.  12 CFR 1266.3(b)(2).
Since 2020, 10 to 30 percent of outstanding 
advances had an original term to maturity 
greater than five years, subjecting them 
to the proxy test.  If the term to maturity 
requirement were modified to one year, 
between 40 and 70 percent of outstanding 
advances could potentially be subject to 
the proxy test (see Figure 14).
62   While this 
revision would more effectively tie advance 
usage to the mission of the FHLBanks, it could 
also have an adverse impact on the ability of 
some members to obtain advances with terms 
greater than one year.  FHFA will conduct a 
study to evaluate the appropriate term to 
maturity for long-term advances that would 
most effectively balance the FHLBank System’s 
mission and safety and soundness objectives.  
Depending on the outcome of the analysis, 
FHFA will consider a rulemaking to revise 
the definition of a long-term advance in the 
Advances and CSR regulation. 

46
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FIGURE 14: FHLBANK SYSTEM SHARE OF TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSTANDING BY ORIGINAL TERMS TO MATURITY
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023
Increase Financing for CIP and CICA 
Programs
Approximately $3.5 billion and $1.4 billion 
in respective CIP and CICA advances were 
offered in 2022, amounting to less than 0.1 
percent of total advances.  Additionally, only 
175 of the nearly 6,500 FHLBank members 
obtained either CIP or CICA advances in 2022.  
System at 100: Increased use of CIP and CICA 
programs by FHLBanks and their members.
FHFA will work with the FHLBanks to identify 
ways to expand the use of the CIP and CICA 
programs as part of an increased emphasis on 
lending in support of affordable housing and 
community development (see Figure 15). 
In addition, FHFA will undertake a rulemaking 
to propose amendments to its CICA regulation 
to promote increased use of the CIP and 
CICA programs and enhance the FHLBanks’ 
ability to respond to an evolving economic 
landscape.  FHFA plans to update the 
geographically defined targeted beneficiaries 
in the regulation to remove references to 
inactive programs, include references to 
new programs, and address the regulation’s 
targeted income levels for urban and rural 
areas, which may assist localities in achieving 
more sustainable, mixed-income communities.

47
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Program Characteristics CIP CICA
Type Statutorily required 
(Bank Act)
Voluntary
Participants FHLBank members FHLBank members and housing 
associates
a
Eligible Uses Economic 
development, mixed-
use, or housing
Economic development or 
mixed-use
Targeted Income Housing Household incomes are 
115 percent or less of 
area median income 
(AMI)
N/A
Economic 
Development
Household incomes 
are 80 percent or less 
of AMI, or activities 
are located in 
neighborhoods where 
at least 51 percent of 
households are low- or 
moderate-income
Includes designated 
redevelopment areas, 
Empowerment Zones and 
Champion Communities,
b and 
areas where rural households’ 
incomes are 115 percent or less 
of AMI, or urban households’ 
incomes are 100 percent or less 
of AMI
Funding Type Advances and standby 
letters of credit
c
Long-term advances, standby 
letters of credit, and grants
Advance Pricing Cost of funds 
plus reasonable 
administrative costs
Regular advance pricing or 
discounted advance pricing
a. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(10); 12 CFR part 1292.  Housing associates are defined to include 
eligible state and local housing finance agencies.  Housing associates are not FHLBank 
members, but FHLBanks may offer them advance products except CIP advances.  See 12 U.S.C. 
1430b; 12 CFR part 1264.  
b. See 12 CFR 1292.1.
c. Standby letters of credit issued by an FHLBank guarantee payments made to another entity 
under stated conditions. 
FIGURE 15: CIP AND CICA PROGRAMS: PROGRAM TYPE, ELIGIBILITY , AND FUNDING TYPE

48
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Increase Statutorily Required Minimum 
Funding for AHP
The Bank Act requires each FHLBank to 
contribute at least 10 percent of its prior 
year’s net earnings to its AHP .  In 2022, the 
FHLBanks awarded approximately $266.9 
million through their annual mandatory AHP 
funding, which assisted over 25,000 low- or 
moderate-income households, including over 
12,000 very low-income households.
63  
System at 100:  Amendment of the 
Bank Act to require each FHLBank to 
increase its contributions to its AHP .
Given the challenges to housing affordability 
in markets across the country—rising rents 
and interest rates, high construction costs, 
increasing house prices, and limited housing 
supply—it is important to re-evaluate the level 
of AHP support provided by the FHLBanks.  
Many participants at the roundtable 
discussions called for Congressional action to 
increase the FHLBanks’ statutorily required 
AHP minimum annual contribution.  
63  The level of AHP funds awarded can include funding adjustments from prior years and may therefore differ from statutory 
funding contribution levels calculated based on FHLBank net income.
64  These include the exemption of the FHLBanks’ corporate earnings from federal and state income taxes, see 12 U.S.C. 
1433, favorable treatment of FHLBank capital stock and consolidated obligations under the Federal securities laws, see 12 U.S.C. 
1426a, and limited authorization for Treasury to purchase consolidated obligations, see 12 U.S.C. 1431(i), (l).
65  See 12 U.S.C. 1433.
66  See Jim Parrott & Mark Zandi, In Defense of the Federal Home Loan Banks (Apr. 2023), available at  
https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/2023-04/In%20Defense%20of%20the%20Federal%20Home%20Loan%20Banks_0.pdf 
and Cornelius Hurley, Weighing the Costs and Benefits of Federal Home Loan Banks, American Banker (Nov. 21, 2022), available 
at https://www.americanbanker.com/opinion/weighing-the-costs-and-benefits-of-federal-home-loan-banks.
67  All obligations of the FHLBanks must plainly state that they are neither obligations of, nor guaranteed by, the United 
States. 12 U.S.C. 1435. However, Parrott & Zandi state that the market perceives a “very high likelihood of support from the US 
Government,” and report that the System’s long-term senior unsecured debt rating was Aaa, while individual FHLBanks had 
standalone ratings of a1 or aa3. See Parrott & Zandi (Apr. 2023).
Stakeholders at the roundtable discussions 
also expressed the view that the FHLBanks 
receive certain advantages from their status as 
GSEs, and a greater portion of these benefits 
should be passed through to consumers and 
communities.  FHFA supports the view that 
the unique advantages of the GSE status
64 
come with corresponding responsibilities for 
the FHLBanks to support their public mission.  
Estimates of the advantages of GSE status for 
the FHLBanks—and their members—include:
• The FHLBanks are exempt from 
paying most federal, state, and local 
taxes.
65  The cost savings from the tax 
exemption, estimated around $800 
million in 2022,
66  is more than triple the 
10 percent AHP contribution in 2022. 
• The FHLBanks issue debt in the capital 
markets at rates only slightly higher 
than those on comparable Treasury 
instruments.  This ability arises from the 
joint and several nature of consolidated 
obligations, as well as the perception 
that the federal government would 
provide support in the event of a 
default by the FHLBanks.
67  Estimates of 

49
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
the annual value of these advantages range from $100 million to $6 billion or more. 68  
• The FHLBanks distribute a significant amount of earnings in the form of dividends every 
year.  The System paid out an average of $1.3 billion in dividends each year from 2020 to 
2022 and paid out $1.5 billion in the first half of 2023 (See Figure 16).
FIGURE 16: FHLBANK DIVIDENDS AND AHP ASSESSMENTS
FHFA supports an increase in AHP contributions, as the FHLBanks have the financial capacity to 
make a larger AHP contribution without adversely affecting their safety and soundness. 
The history of the FHLBank System supports this conclusion.  For example, to resolve troubled 
thrifts, FIRREA created the Resolution Funding Corporation (REFCorp) to fund the Resolution 
68  Parrott & Zandi follow an approach similar to that used by Deborah Lucas & Marvin Phaup, Federal Subsidies and the 
Housing GSEs (Congressional Budget Office, May 2001), where the authors estimate the value of the implicit guarantee for 2022 
at $4.7 billion. See https://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/107th-congress-2001-2002/reports/gses.pdf. Other commenters, 
such as Cornelius Hurley, provide only a rough estimate, using an approximation of the interest rate differential multiplied by 
the approximate level of debt outstanding.  He estimates the value of the implied guarantee at $6 billion ($1.2 trillion of debt 
multiplied by a 50 basis point interest rate differential). See Hurley (Nov. 21, 2022).  Dan Siciliano reports a lower estimate of 
$10 to $100 million, which he describes as the actuarial cost of the implied guarantee. See “The Bank System’s Guardian Angel 
You’ve Never Heard Of,” (Aug. 18, 2023) in “Forward Guidance,” podcast hosted by Jack Farley, available at  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pm3eEsXUQWg. 
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023 

50
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Trust Corporation (RTC).  Over time, the 
FHLBanks were able to fund their AHP and 
provide additional contributions to REFCorp, 
while continuing to meet their members’ 
financing needs.  Since fulfillment of the 
REFCorp obligations in 2011, each FHLBank 
has been voluntarily setting aside 20 percent 
of its net income to a restricted retained 
earnings account.
69    While accounted for 
separately, these restricted retained earnings 
are considered part of the full capital position 
of the FHLBanks and contribute to their 
capacity to absorb losses.  The ability of 
the FHLBanks to fund AHP initiatives while 
continuing to set aside 20 percent of their 
net income highlights their capacity to fund a 
higher all-in AHP obligation.
Moreover, as discussed earlier in this report, 
the FHLBanks have increased their overall 
retained earnings markedly over the past 
20 years (see Figure 13).  This growth in 
retained earnings exceeds the addition to 
the FHLBanks’ restricted retained earnings 
attributable to the completion of their 
REFCorp obligation.  Even as the System has 
continued to supplement its capital position 
and fund its existing AHP obligations, it has 
paid significant dividends to members, as 
illustrated in Figure 16.  
Based on these considerations, FHFA 
encourages the FHLBanks to voluntarily 
increase their annual AHP contribution and 
69  An FHLBank can pause this obligation when its restricted retained earnings equal 1.0 percent of consolidated obligations.  
If restricted retained earnings reach 1.5 percent of consolidated obligations, the FHLBank can reallocate the excess to its 
unrestricted retained earnings account.
will recommend that Congress consider 
amending the Bank Act to at least double the 
minimum required annual AHP contribution.  
In addition, FHFA will continue to monitor 
whether individual FHLBanks may need to 
continue to grow their retained earnings 
to ensure they remain safe and sound and 
to mitigate against the risk of capital stock 
impairment.  
FHFA also will conduct additional research 
to further document the extent to which 
consumers and communities benefit from the 
FHLBank System.  Estimating the direct and 
indirect public benefit of the FHLBank System 
is complex.  Valuing the direct public benefit 
is relatively straightforward, and includes 
the required AHP assessment, as well as 
contributions by the FHLBanks to voluntary 
programs and other subsidized advances.  The 
indirect benefits, such as the liquidity supplied 
to the housing markets through the FHLBanks’ 
core business of making advances to their 
members, are more difficult to quantify.  There 
are also different stakeholders that benefit 
from the FHLBank System, ranging from 
private sector actors to specific sectors of the 
housing economy and the general public.
Based on its additional research and analysis, 
FHFA may propose regulatory changes to 
correct imbalances in the relative value of the 
public and private benefits provided by the 
FHLBank System.  

51
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Streamline AHP Regulatory Requirements 
The Bank Act specifies the authorized uses 
of AHP funds, while FHFA’s AHP regulation 
provides additional requirements and 
parameters under which the FHLBanks operate 
their AHP .  FHFA plans to amend the AHP 
regulation to streamline certain requirements 
and expand access to AHP programs.  Some 
of the revisions FHFA is considering include 
updating AHP regulatory provisions for 
revolving loan funds, assessing options for AMI 
flexibility in high-cost areas, increasing per-
household homeownership set-aside grants 
in high-cost areas, and revising certain project 
compliance and monitoring requirements to 
increase programmatic efficiency.   
System at 100:  Revisions to AHP regulation 
to allow more entities to access AHP funds.
Photo from Anadarko, OK, one of the communities FHFA visited as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future 
initiative.  Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.

52
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future52
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future52
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM  
The Bank Act specifies that AHP funds are to finance the purchase, construction, or 
rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing for low- or moderate-income households (with 
incomes at 80 percent or less of AMI), and the purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of 
rental housing where at least 20 percent of the units are affordable for and occupied by 
very low-income households (with incomes at 50 percent or less of AMI).  Each FHLBank’s 
AHP leverages other types of financing and supports affordable housing for special needs 
and homeless families, among other groups.
The FHLBanks are authorized to operate two programs:
• Competitive Application Program (General Fund and Targeted Fund(s)) – A member 
of an FHLBank submits an application for AHP funds to the FHLBank on behalf of a 
nonprofit or for-profit sponsor and is evaluated in comparison to other applications 
under the FHLBank's scoring system.  Establishment of a competitive application 
program is mandatory for each FHLBank.  
• Homeownership Set-Aside Program – FHLBanks make grants available to their 
members, who provide the funds as down payment, closing cost, or counseling 
assistance to homebuyers, or as rehabilitation assistance to homeowners.  
Establishment of a homeownership set-aside program is elective for each FHLBank.  
FHFA's regulation limits the share of funds that an FHLBank may allocate annually to its 
set-aside program.

53
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Enhance Support for Prudently Structured 
Voluntary and Pilot Programs 
To address specific district needs, the 
FHLBanks allocate funds to implement a 
variety of voluntary programs focused on 
housing and community development for 
vulnerable and underserved communities.  
These voluntary programs could be expanded 
to complement AHP , CIP , and CICA. Some 
stakeholders suggested expanding voluntary 
programs to include support for special 
purpose credit programs, emergency funds 
to address unanticipated cost overruns or 
funding gaps that threaten completion of 
a construction project, or larger grants for 
specific projects that are responsive to local 
needs, minimizing the number of funding 
sources.  
System at 100:  Prudently structured 
pilot and voluntary programs to address 
unmet needs of the communities.
 
Photo courtesy of Esperanza, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on 
the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.  


54
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future54
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future54
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
FHLBANK VOLUNTARY PROGRAMS
In addition to their mandatory AHP annual funding contributions, the FHLBanks allocate 
funds to implement a variety of voluntary programs to address specific needs in their 
districts.  Some of these programs are highlighted below.  See FHFA’s 2022 Report on 
FHLBank Targeted Mission Activities or visit the FHLBanks’ websites for more information 
on FHLBank voluntary programs.  
• The FHLBank of Dallas Housing Assistance for Veterans (HAVEN) program provides grant 
funding to eligible U.S. veterans and active-duty, reserve, or National Guard service 
members who became disabled as a result of their military service and to Gold Star 
Families to make accessibility modifications to existing homes, offset construction costs 
of a newly built home that meets accessibility needs, and pay for certain other expenses.  
• The FHLBank of Boston’s Jobs for New England program offers zero percent advances 
to members so they can provide low-interest loans to eligible small businesses for job 
creation and retention or economic development.  
• The FHLBank of Pittsburgh’s Blueprint Communities® program prepares and supports 
teams of local leaders over the long term as they develop and implement plans to 
revitalize older communities and neighborhoods.  
• The FHLBank of Cincinnati’s Carol M. Peterson Housing Fund provides grant funding 
for accessibility rehabilitation, weatherization, and emergency repairs for low-income 
homeowners who have special needs and/or are at least 60 years of age.

55
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
The FHLBanks could also initiate pilot 
programs that allow the FHLBanks’ 
management and boards of directors to 
evaluate the efficacy and suitability of 
permanent, larger-scale programs that 
require FHFA approval.  Some stakeholders 
suggested funding pilots to support 
predevelopment activities for multifamily 
housing, including site assessments, 
feasibility studies, and financial planning.  
Many mission-oriented housing and service 
organizations do not have the resources 
to manage these activities, which are 
necessary first steps to increase the supply 
of affordable multifamily housing.
70 
FHFA will provide guidance to the FHLBanks 
establishing standards on the size, scope, 
and duration for pilots to encourage the 
FHLBanks to initiate transparent small-
scale initiatives.  FHFA will also ensure 
the Agency’s oversight and supervisory 
functions foster prudent and meaningful use 
of pilot and voluntary programs to address 
unmet needs in the communities they serve 
in a safe and sound manner. 
Enhance Support for Multifamily 
Housing
The FHLBanks support multifamily housing 
activities through AHP funding, CIP 
advances, advances secured by multifamily 
properties, and investments in commercial 
MBS.  However, the FHLBanks could expand 
70  AHP funds can be used to support predevelopment activities, but only in conjunction with the submission of an 
application for project funding for purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of affordable housing.
their efforts to support multifamily housing 
through their core business and innovative 
pilot programs, targeting specific housing 
needs and encouraging new solutions for 
financing multifamily housing.  
System at 100:  Increased 
support for multifamily lending.
Potential activities include revisiting 
multifamily collateral eligibility, haircuts, 
and valuations, as well as enabling adaptive 
reuse of commercial properties, supporting 
transit-oriented multifamily housing, and 
fostering new ideas and information sharing.  
The FHLBanks should find innovative ways 
to increase the production, rehabilitation, 
and preservation of multifamily housing, 
particularly smaller multifamily properties. 
Enhance Member Community Support 
Requirements
System at 100:  Enhanced community support 
standards and reporting on the achievement 
of these standards by FHLBank Members.
To maintain continued access to long-term 
advances, the Bank Act requires FHLBank 
members to meet community investment or 
service standards, considering factors such 
as a member’s record of lending to first-
time homebuyers and performance under 

56
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).71  
The CRA encourages commercial banks 
and savings associations to help meet the 
needs of borrowers in all segments of their 
communities, including low- and moderate-
income neighborhoods. 
FHFA will consider opportunities to strengthen 
the CSR requirements, including through 
development of appropriately tailored 
requirements based on member type and 
mission orientation.
The CSR provides incentives for FHLBank 
members to support housing and community 
development.  FHFA will conduct a thorough 
review before undertaking a proposed 
rulemaking to enhance the community 
support standards in its CSR regulation,
72  
which implements this statutory requirement.  
Potential amendments could include requiring 
more detail from members about their lending 
or activities to support first-time homebuyers, 
and establishing additional standards that 
demonstrate support for multifamily housing 
or community development.
Enhance AMA Programs and Expand 
Affordable Housing Goals
The FHLBank AMA programs currently 
facilitate the purchase of only first lien 
conventional single-family mortgages, 
although purchase of mortgages on 
71  12 U.S.C. 2901-2908.
72  12 CFR part 1290.
73  See 12 CFR 1268.3(a) (permitting FHLBanks to acquire as AMA “whole loans that are eligible to secure advances under [12 
CFR] 1266.7(a)(1)(i),” which includes first mortgage loans on multifamily property).
multifamily properties would be permissible 
under the AMA regulation.73  Many 
stakeholders, including community banks 
and credit unions, expressed support for the 
FHLBanks’ AMA programs.  FHFA encourages 
the FHLBanks to work with their members to 
propose safe and sound niche AMA products, 
such as loan products that focus on local credit 
needs or that are not easily commoditized 
or funded through securitization.  Specific 
examples from the roundtable discussions 
include loan financing for the: (i) purchase 
and renovation of homes in distressed 
neighborhoods, where the value of the 
rehabilitated home may not be supported 
by current market appraisals; (ii) purchase of 
small multifamily properties; and (iii) purchase 
and adaptive reuse of commercial properties 
to support housing finance and community 
development.  
Additionally, FHFA plans to undertake a 
rulemaking to expand its affordable housing 
goal categories for AMA purchases that 
support housing finance in minority census 
tracts.  Under the 2020 FHLBank Affordable 
Housing Goals regulation, each FHLBank 
with an AMA program must ensure that at 
least 20 percent of its annual AMA mortgage 
purchases encompass a combination of goal 
categories that include purchase and refinance 
mortgages for low-income families, very 

57
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
IV . HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
low-income families, and families in low-income areas.74  In 2021, FHFA amended its Affordable 
Housing Goals regulation for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to create a minority census tract 
sub-goal, which was designed to encourage loan purchases in minority census tracts.75   The 
FHLBank Affordable Housing Goals regulation would be amended to establish a similar minority 
census tract goal for the FHLBanks.
74  See 85 FR 38031 (Jun. 25, 2020); 12 CFR part 1281.
75  See 86 FR 73641 (Dec. 28, 2021); 12 CFR part 1282.
Photo courtesy of Century Housing, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: 
Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 

58
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY ,
STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
In addition to the programmatic and supervisory issues discussed previously, structural factors 
are also a key determinant of the FHLBanks’ ability to fulfill their mission in a safe and sound 
manner.  Facilitating an optimal structure and the efficient functioning of the FHLBank System is 
essential to its future viability.  Below are several actions under consideration by FHFA related 
to the organization and operations of the System as a whole, the composition of the FHLBanks’ 
membership base, the size and composition of the FHLBanks’ boards of directors, and the 
appropriate compensation and incentives for FHLBank executives. 
Improve FHLBank System’s Operational 
Efficiency
The FHLBanks’ primary business of making 
advances ebbs and flows with the financial 
needs of their members and changing 
conditions in the financial markets, and the 
volume of this business can be increased 
without significant changes in cost.  However, 
technology costs and the costs of adapting 
to changing business, physical, and social 
environments have been increasing, 
irrespective of demand for advances.  While 
each FHLBank should continue to focus on 
its own operational efficiency, the FHLBanks 
also should work together to achieve System 
efficiencies, such as by establishing centers 
of excellence for activities and programs that 
affect multiple districts. 
System at 100: System collaboration 
and use of Centers of Excellence.
Establishing centers of excellence would 
provide a way for the FHLBanks to develop 
a deeper understanding of specific issues, 
including business function efficiency or 
aspects of their housing and community 
development mission.  The FHLBanks 
could consolidate scarce, high-demand 
capabilities, including knowledge, skills, 
and work experience; increase the speed of 
development, delivery, and maintenance of 
critical business processes; and overcome the 
obstacles and challenges that have prevented 
full support of underserved communities and 
certain types of members.  
Recent FHLBank efforts to evaluate 
counterparty credit and the acceptance of 
eNotes as collateral highlight how efficiency 
gains may be achieved through collaboration 
among the FHLBanks.  FHFA encourages the 
FHLBanks to work together on additional 
aspects of their mission, including efforts to 
improve climate resiliency, boost support for 
affordable multifamily housing, and increase 
Native American and tribal community access 
to, and use of, FHLBank products and services.

59
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
Monitor System Structure
Under the Bank Act, the FHLBank System 
generally must consist of between eight and 
12 districts.
76  In establishing the System in 
1932, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
(FHLBB) chose to charter 12 FHLBanks, the 
maximum number permissible under the 
statute.  The FHLBank System has consisted 
of 12 FHLBanks in 1932-1946 and 1964-2015, 
and 11 FHLBanks at all other times, including 
currently.  The total number of FHLBank 
districts may be reduced to fewer than eight 
pursuant to a voluntary merger between 
FHLBanks under section 26(b) of the Bank 
Act
77 or a decision by the Agency to liquidate 
an FHLBank pursuant to section 1367 of the 
Federal Housing Enterprises Financial 
76  See 12 U.S.C. 1423(a).
77  12 U.S.C. 1446(b).
78  12 U.S.C. 4617.
Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (Safety and 
Soundness Act).78
System at 100: Updated System 
structure as needed to ensure the 
stability of support to communities.
After commercial banks and credit unions 
became eligible for membership in 1989, total 
System membership increased to over 8,000 
institutions in the early 2000s.  Subsequently, 
the consolidation of commercial banks has 
resulted in an overall decline in membership 
to approximately 6,500 institutions today (see 
Figure 9 above).  While the overall number of 
current FHLBank members is relatively high, 
the number of members at each individual 
Native American and Tribal Communities Use Case 
The FHLBank System, for example, could employ the centers of excellence model to address 
challenges the FHLBanks have encountered in their efforts to work with Native American and 
tribal communities.  The center could be charged with developing expertise about Native 
American and tribal communities, improving awareness of the mission, products, and services 
of the FHLBank System, and advancing access to the FHLBank System.  
In 1995, the FHLBank of Des Moines established a program tailored specifically to the 
challenges of lending to tribal communities.  Through this program, the FHLBank has awarded 
$155.7 million in down payment and closing cost assistance to help more than 32,700 families 
in Native American and tribal communities with the purchase of a home.  Sharing lessons 
learned with other FHLBanks could improve engagement with Native American and tribal 
communities throughout the country.  

60
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
FIGURE 17: FHLBANK DISTRICT SIZE 
District Number of States 
and US Territories
Number of 
Members
Des Moines 16 1,260
Atlanta 8 797
Dallas 5 785
Topeka 4 669
Chicago 2 656
Cincinnati 3 613
Boston 6 427
Indianapolis 2 347
San Francisco 3 327
New York 4 326
Pittsburgh 3 280
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023
FHLBank varies widely—from a low of 280 to a high of 1,260 members. The number of states 
and territories in each FHLBank district also varies considerably, ranging from two to 16 states 
or territories (see Figure 17).  FHLBanks with low membership counts are more reliant on 
continued activity by a smaller number of institutions and are therefore at greater risk of being 
impacted by consolidation of depository members. FHFA will commence a study on whether 
realignment and consolidation are necessary for the efficiency of the system.
As was highlighted by the merger of the FHLBanks of Des Moines and Seattle in 2015, 
consolidation can lead to efficiency gains and lower operating costs.  FHFA will continue to 
evaluate the System to ensure the ongoing stability of each FHLBank and use its authorities 
or encourage the FHLBanks to consider voluntary mergers if future viability is in question.  
This would be accomplished in a manner that preserves the regional nature of the system, if 
appropriate. 
The Bank Act provides FHFA with authority to consolidate FHLBanks and reorganize FHLBank 
districts.
79 FHFA will review the issue in the near term and establish a protocol for regular 
periodic reviews to determine whether districts should be re-aligned.  However, because that 
79  See 12 U.S.C. 1423(a), 1445, 1446(a).

61
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
general authority for consolidation is limited 
by the requirement that the number of 
FHLBank districts not be reduced to fewer 
than eight, subject to the exceptions described 
above, FHFA may recommend statutory 
amendments to Congress if it determines such 
changes are warranted.
Harmonize Member Eligibility 
Requirements
The Bank Act restricts eligibility for FHLBank 
membership to specified types of institutions.  
Expansion of eligibility to new member 
types since 1932 has been the result of 
Congressional action to amend the Bank Act.  
System at 100: Equitable mission 
treatment and minimum 
expectation for all member types.
Regardless of type, an institution must meet a 
number of mission and safety and soundness 
requirements to be deemed eligible, although 
the applicability and methods of determining 
compliance with these eligibility requirements 
vary depending on the member type.
80   For 
example, while insured depository institutions 
(except those that qualify as a CFI) must have 
at least 10 percent of their total assets in 
residential mortgage loans to be eligible for 
membership, other membership types are not 
subject to  this requirement.
81  
80  See 12 U.S.C. 1424; 12 CFR part 1263.6.
81  12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(A), (4).
Currently, some requirements are applied on 
an ongoing basis (e.g., an institution must 
maintain its status as an eligible entity type—
such as a depository institution maintaining 
its charter or a CDFI maintaining its CDFI Fund 
certification), and some are applied only at 
the time of application (e.g., the requirement 
that a non-CFI depository institution hold at 
least 10 percent of its assets in residential 
mortgage loans).  To ensure that members 
continue to support the FHLBank mission, 
FHFA plans to initiate a rulemaking to require 
that certain members have at least 10 percent 
of their assets in residential mortgage loans 
or equivalent mission assets (including 
assets that qualify as CFI collateral where 
appropriate) on an ongoing basis to remain 
eligible for FHLBank financing.  FHFA expects 
to analyze the impacts of such a requirement 
on different types of member institutions as 
part of the rulemaking process.

62
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
FHFA’s Requirements on FHLBank Membership 
For purposes of determining eligibility for membership, FHFA’s regulation groups members 
and applicants into three categories: (1) federally insured depository institutions (including, 
for most purposes, qualifying non-federally-insured credit unions and CDFIs that are insured 
depositories),
82  (2) insurance companies, and (3) non-depository CDFIs.  There are further 
distinctions among insured depository institutions, as CFIs are treated differently from non-CFIs 
in some respects.  The regulation requires each institution, regardless of type, to meet the same 
six general requirements to be deemed eligible for membership:
• it is duly organized under federal, state, or tribal law; 
• it is subject to inspection and regulation under federal or state banking or similar laws (or, 
in the case of a non-depository CDFI, is certified by the CDFI Fund of the United States 
Department of the Treasury); 
• it makes long-term home mortgage loans; 
• its financial condition is such that advances may be safely made to it; 
• the character of its management is consistent with sound and economical home 
financing; and 
• its home financing policy is consistent with sound and economical home financing.
83 
In addition, the regulation parallels the Bank Act by requiring that a non-CFI depository 
institution applicant (essentially, any credit union or larger commercial bank) must have at least 
10 percent of its total assets in residential mortgage loans to be eligible for membership (the 
“10 percent” requirement).
84  The regulation does not apply the 10 percent requirement to CFIs, 
which are expressly exempted by statute, or to CDFIs and insurance companies, about which the 
statute is silent.  The regulation, however, requires institutions that are not insured depository 
institutions (i.e., non-depository CDFIs and insurance companies) to have “mortgage-related 
assets” that “reflect a commitment to housing finance,” as determined by each FHLBank in its 
discretion, to be considered eligible.
85 
82  By statute, non-federally-insured credit unions meeting certain requirements may be considered to be “insured 
depository institutions” for purposes of FHLBank membership eligibility.  See 12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(5).
83  See 12 CFR 1263.6(a).
84  See 12 CFR 1263.6(b).
85  See 12 CFR 1263.6(b), (c).

63
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
The authority to establish eligibility 
requirements for FHLBank membership 
remains with Congress, but FHFA can 
make regulatory changes to create greater 
consistency in applying existing statutory 
requirements to evaluating applicant eligibility 
for FHLBank membership.  To ensure that 
membership requirements more effectively 
support the mission and safety and soundness 
of the FHLBanks, FHFA will monitor and may 
consider harmonizing the manner in which 
membership eligibility requirements are 
applied to the different membership types 
and ensure that advance terms and pricing are 
not manipulated by members with access to 
multiple FHLBanks.
Member Eligibility Requirements
In 2016, FHFA issued a final rule clarifying the 
definition of “insurance company” to prevent 
entities ineligible for membership under 
the Bank Act from using captive insurance 
subsidiaries to circumvent the statute and 
gain access to FHLBank funding.
86  Since this 
change, some stakeholders have increasingly 
advocated for nonbank mortgage companies 
and mortgage real estate investment trusts 
(REITs) to be allowed direct access to the 
system.  All members should be subject to 
effective and consistent safety and soundness 
and mission-related eligibility requirements, 
and compliance with those requirements 
should be evaluated based on standards of 
86  See 81 FR 3246 (Jan. 20, 2016). Some of the entities that had used captive insurance companies to obtain membership 
were involved in housing-related activities.  
similar rigor for all eligible membership types.  
FHFA plans to study this issue further and 
potentially initiate a rulemaking to strengthen 
and harmonize the implementation of the 
membership requirements and ensure 
that members continue to support the 
FHLBank mission.  Possible amendments to 
the FHLBank membership regulation could 
require that all applicants for membership 
demonstrate a measurable and ongoing 
commitment to housing finance, standardize 
the financial documents that each type of 
entity must submit as part of a membership 
application, and strengthen the standards by 
which compliance with certain membership 
requirements is assessed.  
Additionally, if Congress were to expand 
membership to entities that are currently 
ineligible under existing law, such as nonbank 
mortgage companies or mortgage REITs, to 
ensure the ongoing safety and soundness 
of the System and mission orientation 
of members, FHFA recommends that 
such entities be subject to membership 
requirements that currently apply to most 
members including: (1) inspection and 
regulation, (2) community support or service 
requirements, and (3) the requirement that 
10 percent of their assets be in residential 
mortgage loans or an equivalent mission asset 
or activity requirement.

64
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
Parity between Members with and without 
Multidistrict Membership
Generally, an entity can only be a member 
of the FHLBank in the district in which its 
principal place of business is located.  With 
the repeal of restrictions on interstate 
banking in 1994, however, some bank holding 
companies acquired multiple subsidiaries 
with memberships in different FHLBank 
districts.  As of March 2023, there were 24 
bank holding companies with subsidiaries 
having membership with multiple FHLBanks, 
and many parent insurance companies have 
two or more subsidiaries with membership 
in the same or different FHLBanks, resulting 
in a total of 320 memberships for 111 parent 
insurance companies.  The issue is further 
complicated by the fact that parent insurance 
companies may have subsidiaries chartered in 
different states as well as separately chartered 
companies for different lines of insurance.  
Moreover, insurance companies within 
the same parent organization often share 
management teams and boards of directors. 
Entities with access to multiple FHLBank 
districts have posed challenges in the past 
when they attempted to engage the FHLBanks 
in competition with each other or frequently 
transferred business from one FHLBank to 
another for better dividends, better pricing, 
or more flexible collateral requirements.  
At times, this has resulted in volatility in 
advance demand among the FHLBanks.  FHFA 
87  See 12 CFR parts 1236, 1239, and 1261.
will continue to monitor the effect multi-
district members have on the FHLBanks and 
encourages improved communication and 
information sharing among the FHLBanks 
on the borrowing activity of multi-district 
members.  FHFA will provide guidance on 
multi-district member management as 
necessary.
Ensure Optimal Board Size 
The responsibilities of an FHLBank’s board 
of directors include establishing strategic 
objectives, approving the FHLBank’s risk 
appetite and ensuring its alignment with 
mission objectives, providing operational 
oversight, and approving significant policy 
decisions and executive compensation.
87   
System at 100: Updated governance 
requirements to maximize board 
efficiency and effectiveness.
Each FHLBank’s effectiveness in achieving its 
mission and safety and soundness goals is 
influenced by its governance.  Consequently, 
each FHLBank’s board must be structured 
to carry out its responsibilities effectively. 
Best practices for corporate governance 
place emphasis on both the quantity (size) 
and quality (composition) of the board, 
and require that the size and composition 
be evaluated and adjusted, as necessary, in 
response to changes in an entity’s business 
lines and operating environment. 

65
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
In 2024, the FHLBanks’ board sizes will range from 14 to 22 directors.  A significant driver of 
larger board sizes at most FHLBanks is the statutory “grandfather provision,” which requires 
that FHFA allocate to each state in each FHLBank district at least as many member directorships 
as the state held in 1960, regardless of whether members in the state have sufficient required 
stock holdings to warrant that number of seats today.
88   Thus, the grandfather provision tends 
to expand FHLBank board sizes without ensuring proportional representation of states with a 
large and active membership base.
Given that the fiduciary duty of board directors is to act in the best interest of the FHLBank,
89  
FHFA will study the optimal board size for effective oversight and make recommendations to 
Congress regarding any necessary statutory changes, including the removal of the “grandfather 
provision.” 
88  See 12 U.S.C. 1427(c). For example, while members in the state of New Jersey (part of the FHLBank of New York 
district) “earned” two seats for 2024 based on the amount of FHLBank stock required to be held by members in that state 
as of December 31, 2022, FHFA was required to designate two additional seats (four total) to comply with the “grandfather 
provision.” States grandfathered to have a board allocation greater than one seat are: Colorado, Kentucky, Louisiana, Oklahoma, 
and Tennessee, which each receive at least two seats; California, Kansas, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Texas, which each 
receive at least three seats; Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, and Wisconsin, which each receive at least four seats; Indiana, 
which receives at least five seats; and Pennsylvania, which receives six seats.
89  See 12 CFR 1239.4(b).
Photo of Eastmoor Circle (Moorhead, MS), one of the developments FHFA visited as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing 
on the Future initiative.  Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.


66
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
 Size and Composition of FHLBank Boards of Directors 
The Bank Act provides that each FHLBank is to have a board of 13 directors, “or such other 
number as the Director [of FHFA] determines appropriate.”  It further specifies that a majority 
of each FHLBank’s board must be “member directors” who are officers or directors of FHLBank 
member institutions, while not less than 40 percent must be “independent directors” who 
are unaffiliated with the FHLBank or its members.  The statute requires that FHFA determine 
annually each FHLBank board’s total number of directorships, as well as the relative number of 
member directorships and independent directorships, for the following calendar year. 
Additional requirements include: 
• Member directorships at each FHLBank must be allocated among the states of the
FHLBank district in proportion to the relative amount of FHLBank stock that all of the
members in each state were required to hold as of the end of the preceding calendar
year.
• Each state must have at least one member directorship, but no more than six.
• Each state must be allocated at least as many member directorships as it had on
December 31, 1960 (the “grandfather provision”).
• Member directors are nominated and elected by the members in the respective states of
each FHLBank district.  Independent directors are nominated by each FHLBank’s board,
after consultation with the FHLBank’s Affordable Housing Advisory Council, and are
elected by the FHLBanks’ members on an at-large basis.
90
Ensure Proper Composition of the Boards of Directors
Effective governance requires directors to have the knowledge and experience to govern an 
institution of the size and complexity of an FHLBank.  Member directors, nominated and elected 
by the members in the respective states of each FHLBank district, represent the interests of the 
members located in their state.  Independent directors, nominated by each FHLBank’s board 
in consultation with the FHLBank’s Affordable Housing Advisory Council and elected by the 
FHLBanks’ members on an at-large basis, bring knowledge and expertise in a variety of areas 
related to FHLBank activities and operations.  Each board must also have among its independent 
directors two “public interest” directors, who are subject to different qualification requirements 
to ensure they can provide the community and consumer advocacy perspective.  
90  See 12 U.S.C. 1427(a)-(c); 12 CFR 1261.3-.8.

67
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
FHFA plans to address four issues to 
strengthen the composition of the FHLBanks’ 
boards: (i) expand the list of qualifying 
experience for regular independent directors 
(i.e., those not designated as “public interest” 
directors) to reflect business developments 
in housing finance and new and emerging 
risks and complex problems; (ii) encourage 
the FHLBanks to evaluate potential gaps in 
board knowledge and pursue opportunities to 
address these gaps by nominating individuals 
with particular skills, backgrounds, and 
experience, including knowledge of CDFI 
business models; (iii) clarify qualification 
requirements for “public interest” 
independent directors to emphasize that a 
nominee’s experience must include advocating 
for, or otherwise acting primarily for the direct 
benefit of, consumer or community interests; 
and (iv) facilitate the nomination of individuals 
with technical subject matter expertise, and as 
necessary, recommend that Congress amend 
the Bank Act to provide flexibility to permit 
such individuals to serve on the board, even if 
they do not reside in the district as is currently 
required (which will help attract directors with 
specialized knowledge and skills). 
91  See 12 CFR 1230.3(a).
Implement Executive Compensation 
Flexibilities
The board of directors of each FHLBank is 
responsible for setting the compensation of 
the FHLBank’s executives.  No FHLBank may 
pay compensation to an executive officer 
that is not reasonable and comparable with 
compensation paid by similar businesses 
involving similar duties and responsibilities.
91 
System at 100: Compensation that 
aligns to the FHLBanks’ public purpose.
The FHLBanks’ standard practice in setting the 
salaries of FHLBank executives is to compare 
executive salaries for similar positions at 
similarly sized commercial banks.  Unlike 
commercial banks, however, each FHLBank is a 
member-owned cooperative GSE with a public 
purpose and mission.  The FHLBanks have 
lower risk profiles than commercial banks.  
Because the FHLBanks are not comparable 
to commercial banks in many regards, the 
current method of assessing “comparability” 
is a key driver of the high levels of executive 
compensation at the FHLBanks. 
While FHFA has recently issued clarifying 
guidance on more appropriate comparator 
institutions, statutory amendments are 
needed to fully address the issue of elevated 
compensation.  Therefore, FHFA plans 
to recommend that Congress amend the 
Safety and Soundness Act to eliminate the 

68
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
V . FHLBANK SYSTEM OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY , STRUCTURE, AND GOVERNANCE
restrictions on the Agency’s authority to prescribe levels or ranges for the compensation of 
executive officers of the FHLBanks.92  
Executive incentive compensation goals are also approved by each FHLBank’s board.  FHFA’s 
regulation on the Responsibilities of Boards of Directors, Corporate Practices, and Corporate 
Governance makes clear that each FHLBank’s board of directors “is responsible for directing 
the conduct and affairs of the entity in furtherance of the safe and sound operation of the 
entity.”
93  To ensure each FHLBank’s board of directors has the proper focus on carrying out its 
public policy mission, FHFA plans to amend its regulation to describe mission performance as a 
core responsibility of the board.  This amendment will clarify each board’s duty to take concrete 
steps to incorporate successful achievement of both safety and soundness and mission activity 
in executive incentive compensation goals. 
92  See 12 U.S.C. 4518(d).
93  See 12 CFR 1239.4(a).
Photo courtesy of Community Investment Corporation, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank 
System at 100: Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.

69
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
VI. MOVING FORWARD
FHFA has also communicated and collaborated 
with other regulators and stakeholders on 
key issues for which coordinated efforts will 
be necessary.  As a result, the FHLBanks have 
already begun discussions with the Federal 
Reserve Banks to draft agreements that would 
facilitate the transfer of a member’s collateral 
to the Federal Reserve if the member needs 
to borrow from the discount window.  FHFA 
has also initiated discussions with members’ 
primary federal regulators to improve the 
timely exchange of information on member 
financial condition.
In the years ahead, FHFA will pursue a series of 
steps, including developing guidance, soliciting 
public input, and undertaking rulemakings, 
on actions that are within FHFA’s existing 
authority to implement.  These will likely 
include actions related to:
• Amending FHFA’s CMA regulation to
revise and clarify the mission statement
and set forth criteria for assessing
mission achievement;
• Developing an examination component
rating for mission achievement or
other revisions to FHFA’s examination
guidelines to reflect mission
achievement;
• Enhancing the scope of the Targeted
Community Lending Plan by amending
the requirements contained in the
regulation governing CSR;
• Preserving the benefits of FHLBank debt
issuance for all members by limiting
debt issuances that unduly raise debt
clearing costs or debt issuance activity;
• Increasing limits on maximum exposure
on unsecured extensions of credit for
IBDAs to align with limits on overnight
exposures, by amending the maximum
limits to a single counterparty;
• Revising the appropriate maturity
term for the definition of a long-term
advance as necessary;
• Considering whether district mergers
or realignment are necessary to meet
FHFA’s safety and soundness objectives;
• Standardizing and strengthening
membership eligibility requirements,
including amending the Membership
regulation;
• Requiring that at least 10 percent of
certain members’ assets remain in
residential mortgage loans or equivalent
mission assets, including assets that
VI. MOVING FORWARD
The completion of the actions described in this report is a longer-term undertaking.  Some of 
this work will build on efforts already underway.  For example, FHFA has begun discussions 
with the FHLBanks and provided initial guidance to address several issues identified in this 
report, including weaknesses in member credit risk management and the need for executive 
compensation plans to reflect mission achievement. 

70
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
VI. MOVING FORWARD
qualify as CFI collateral, on an ongoing 
basis; and 
• Expanding the list of expertise for
independent directors.
Other recommendations contained within 
this report, such as at least doubling the 
statutory minimum contribution for the AHP , 
allowing more mission-oriented institutions—
such as credit unions and CDFIs—to pledge 
CFI collateral, removing the “grandfather 
provision,” and eliminating restrictions 
on setting executive pay will require 
Congressional action.  FHFA will propose 
specific requests for Congressional action to 
make statutory changes, in some instances 
after conducting additional analyses on these 
issues. Together, these efforts will represent 
the next—and most important—phase of 
the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the 
Future initiative.
The continued safety and soundness and 
mission achievement of the FHLBank System is 
fundamentally important to the health of the 
U.S. housing finance system.  FHFA remains 
committed to carrying out its statutory 
responsibilities as regulator of the FHLBanks 
and taking actions that advance its vision 
for the FHLBank System as it approaches its 
second century. 
Photo courtesy of NeighborWorks Boise, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: 
Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 


71
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 1: LIST OF ACRONYMS
AANHPI – Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and 
Pacific Islander
AHP – Affordable Housing Program 
AMA – Acquired Member Asset
AMI – Area Median Income
Bank Act – Federal Home Loan Bank Act of 1932
CDFI – Community Development Financial 
Institution
CFI – Community Financial Institution 
CICA – Community Investment Cash Advance
CIP – Community Investment Program
CMA – Core Mission Activities
CRA – Community Reinvestment Act
CSR – Community Support Requirements
FDIC – Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FHA – Federal Housing Administration
FHFA – Federal Housing Finance Agency 
FHLBank – Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLBB – Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
Finance Board – Federal Housing Finance Board 
FIRREA – Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, 
and Enforcement Act of 1989 
FSLIC – Federal Savings and Loan  
Insurance Corporation 
GSE – Government-Sponsored Enterprise
HERA – Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 
2008 
HOLC – Home Owners’ Loan Corporation 
IBDA – Interest-Bearing Deposit Account
MBS – Mortgage-Backed Securities
MOC – Mission-Oriented Collateral
NCUA – National Credit Union Administration
OFHEO – Office of Federal Housing  
Enterprise Oversight
OTS – Office of Thrift Supervision
REFCorp – Resolution Funding Corporation
REIT – Real Estate Investment Trust
RTC – Resolution Trust Corporation
Safety and Soundness Act – Federal Housing 
Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act  
of 1992
SEC – Securities and Exchange Commission
APPENDIX 1: LIST OF ACRONYMS

72
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
This appendix presents an overview and brief 
history of the FHLBanks since their inception 
in 1932.  This section is generally organized 
chronologically and focuses on central themes 
relating to the public mission of the FHLBanks.  
Overview
The FHLBank System is a government-
sponsored enterprise established in 1932 
under the Bank Act.  Today, the FHLBank 
System consists of 11 regional FHLBanks and 
the Office of Finance, a joint office whose 
main function is to issue and service FHLBank 
debt securities.
94  
Each FHLBank is a cooperative established to 
support housing and community development 
by providing financial products and services to 
its member institutions and, to a very limited 
extent, eligible non-member mortgagees 
(referred to in FHFA regulation as “housing 
associates”),
95 within its geographically 
defined district.  Only members may own 
FHLBank stock,
96 and all members are required 
to maintain a minimum investment.97  Each 
FHLBank is managed by a board of directors 
that is elected by its members.
98 Only 
members and housing associates may 
94  See 12 U.S.C. 1431; 12 CFR part 1273.
95  See 12 U.S.C. 1430b; 12 CFR part 1264.
96  12 U.S.C. 1426(a)(4)(B).  Former members with advances outstanding also may be required to hold stock until the 
advances are paid off.
97  12 U.S.C. 1426(c)(1).
98  See 12 U.S.C. 1427(a), (b), (c).
99  See 12 U.S.C. 1429, 1430(a)(1), 1430b.
directly access products and services provided 
by an FHLBank.99 
Under the Bank Act, eligibility for FHLBank 
membership is restricted to certain types 
of entities, essentially including: federally 
insured depository institutions, non-federally-
insured credit unions meeting certain criteria, 
insurance companies, and CDFIs.  Federally 
insured depository institutions include thrifts 
(i.e., savings and loans, savings associations, 
and savings banks) and commercial banks, 
whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, as 
well as credit unions whose shares (deposits) 
are insured by the NCUA.  
An institution in one of these categories may 
become an FHLBank member if: (1) it is duly 
organized under federal, state, or tribal law; 
(2) it is subject to inspection and regulation 
under federal or state banking or similar laws 
(or, in the case of a non-depository CDFI, 
is certified by the CDFI Fund of the United 
States Department of the Treasury); (3) it 
makes long-term home mortgage loans; (4) 
its financial condition is such that advances 
may be safely made to it; (5) the character of 
its management is consistent with sound and 
economical home financing; and (6) its home 
financing policy is consistent with sound and 
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM

73
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
economical home financing.100  If the entity is 
an insured depository institution, it must also 
have at least 10 percent of its total assets in 
residential mortgage loans, unless it qualifies 
as a CFI, in which case it is exempted from this 
“10 percent requirement.”
101 CFIs are defined 
as FDIC-insured depository institutions with 
total assets below an adjustable statutory 
threshold (set at $1.417 billion for 2023).
102 
The FHLBanks’ primary business is providing 
low-cost loans, known as advances, to their 
members.
103 FHLBank advances are available 
in a wide variety of structures and terms, but 
in all cases must be fully secured by eligible 
collateral, which includes residential mortgage 
loans and mortgage-backed securities, as well 
as government securities, cash, and other 
real estate-related collateral meeting certain 
requirements.
104  CFIs may also pledge secured 
small business, small farm, small agri-business, 
and community development loans, and 
securities backed by such loans, as collateral 
for advances.
105  In most cases, FHLBank 
members must use the proceeds of long-
term advances—currently defined by FHFA as 
advances with an original term to maturity of 
more than five years
106—to fund residential 
housing finance.107  Members may use the 
100  See 12 U.S.C. 1424 (a)(1), (2); 12 CFR 1263.6(a).
101  See 12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)(A), (4).
102  See 12 U.S.C. 1422(10); see also 87 FR 80184 (Dec. 29, 2022).
103     See 12 CFR 1201.1, 1264.1-.6, 1266.16-.17.
104     See 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(3)(A)-(D).
105  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(3)(E).
106  See 12 CFR 1266.1.
107  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(2)(A).  CFIs can also use long-term advances to fund small business, small farm, small agri-business, 
and community development loans.
108 See 12 CFR part 1268 (AMA); 12 CFR part 1269 (standby letters of credit); 12 CFR 1270.3 (deposits from members). 
proceeds of shorter-term advances for any 
business purpose. 
The FHLBanks also provide their members with 
several other products and services, such as 
AMA programs (through which the FHLBanks 
purchase qualifying residential mortgage 
loans from their members), standby letters of 
credit, and deposit accounts.
108  Each FHLBank 
is also required by the Bank Act to operate 
an AHP , through which it provides grants or 
FIGURE 2-A: FHLBANK MEMBERS BY 
MEMBER TYPE
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023
Note: 6,487 members as of June 30, 2023


74
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
subsidized advances through its members to 
finance homeownership for low- or moderate-
income households (households with incomes 
at or below 80 percent of AMI),
109 and rental 
housing where at least 20 percent of the units 
are occupied by, and affordable to, very low-
income households (households with incomes 
at or below 50 percent of AMI).  Each FHLBank 
is also required by the Bank Act to operate 
a Community Investment Program, through 
which it provides lower-cost advances to 
finance housing and economic development 
projects at targeted income levels.
110  The 
Bank Act requires each FHLBank to contribute 
annually at least 10 percent of its prior year’s 
109  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j).
110  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(i).
111  See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(5).
112  See 12 U.S.C. 1431(b), (c).
net earnings111 to fund its AHP but does not 
mandate a minimum funding contribution to 
the CIP . 
The primary source of funding for the 
FHLBanks’ operations is through the issuance 
of FHLBank System consolidated obligations.
112  
Paid-in capital and deposits constitute a 
much smaller contribution to FHLBank 
funding.  The FHLBanks’ statutory joint and 
several liability for payments of principal and 
interest on their consolidated obligations is 
one factor that enables them to raise funds 
in the capital markets at interest rates only 
slightly higher than those on comparable 
FIGURE 2-B: COLLATERAL TYPES PLEDGED BY FHLBANK MEMBERS
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023


75
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
Treasury instruments.  Another factor is the 
statutory advantages Congress has granted 
the FHLBanks, including exemption from most 
state and federal income taxes,
113 favorable 
treatment of FHLBank capital stock and 
consolidated obligations under the federal 
securities laws,
114  and limited authorization 
for Treasury to purchase consolidated 
obligations.
115  Although all obligations of 
the FHLBanks must plainly state that they 
are neither obligations of, nor guaranteed 
by, the United States,
116 the perception that 
the government would support investors in 
the event of a default by the FHLBanks may 
also be a material factor in the favorable 
interest rates available to the FHLBanks.  
These advantages are intended to enable the 
FHLBanks to support housing finance and 
community development by, among other 
things, providing support to their member 
institutions so they remain strong and viable 
and can continue to serve their communities, 
not just with mortgage loans but with financial 
services generally.  
113  See 12 U.S.C. 1433.
114  See 12 U.S.C. 1426a.  FHLBank consolidated obligations are classified as “exempted securities” under the Securities Act of 
1933 and as “government securities” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
115  See 12 U.S.C. 1431(i), (l).
116  12 U.S.C. 1435.
117  Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States—Herbert Hoover 1931 at 589-90; The Federal Home Loan Bank Act: 
Hearing on H. R. 12280 Before the H. Rules Comm. 72nd Cong. 1 (1932) (statement of Hon. Michael K. Reilly, a Rep. in Congress 
from the State of Wisconsin), available at https://www.google.com/books/edition/_/dd_th_EKL8AC?hl=en&gbpv=1.
118  See Federal Home Loan Bank Act, Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 17, 47 Stat. 725, 736-737 (1932), codified at 12 U.S.C. 1437 
(1932).
119  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 3, 47 Stat. 726, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1423 (1932).
120  See 12 U.S.C. 1427 (1932).  The original boards included 11 directors, two of which were to be appointed by the FHLBB 
and the remainder elected by the members.
The Establishment of the FHLBanks
During the Great Depression, with a U.S. 
housing finance system that had essentially 
ceased functioning and home foreclosures 
increasing sharply, President Herbert Hoover 
signed the Bank Act into law on July 22, 
1932.  The law was based on a 1931 proposal 
informed by the recommendations of a 
presidential commission focused on facilitating 
homeownership, as well as by earlier efforts to 
establish a discount banking system to support 
institutions originating mortgages in the same 
way the Federal Reserve System supported 
commercial banks.
117   
The original Bank Act established a federal 
agency, the FHLBB, to supervise the 
FHLBanks,
118 and authorized it to establish 
a minimum of eight and a maximum of 12 
regional FHLBanks.
119  The management 
of each FHLBank was vested in a board of 
directors, with most of the directors to be 
elected from among the officers and directors 
of member institutions.
120  
To the exclusion of other types of home 
financing institutions, only thrift institutions 

76
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
and insurance companies were eligible for 
membership, provided they made long-term 
home mortgage loans and met certain other 
eligibility requirements.
121  Thrifts made 
the types of “sound and economical” home 
mortgage loans that the President and many in 
Congress believed could place the U.S. housing 
financing system on stronger footing. 
At the outset of the Great Depression, the 
most common form of home financing in 
the United States was the “straight” first 
mortgage loan, which typically had a low loan-
to-value ratio (usually 40-60 percent), and a 
short term to maturity (typically five years or 
less), and required repayment of the entire 
principal at maturity.
122  Thrifts, however, had 
increasingly made available an alternative type 
of mortgage loan with features more suitable 
for people of modest means—specifically, 
longer maturities (typically 8 to 12 years), 
full amortization, and higher loan-to-value 
ratios.  Insurance companies, in particular 
life insurers, were likely included as members 
because they had been “tending toward the 
amortized long-term loan” and policymakers 
121  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 4(a), 47 Stat. 726, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1424(a) (1932).
122   Susan M. Hoffman & Mark K. Cassell,  Mission Expansion in the Federal Home Loan Bank System, (SUNY Press, 2010) at 
31 (hereinafter “Hoffmann & Cassell”).
123  President’s Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership, Report II: Home Finance and Taxation:  Loans, 
Assessments and Taxes on Residential Property, Reports of the Committees on Finance and Taxation (Washington, D.C., National 
Capital Press, 1932) at 26.
124  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 10(a), (b), 47 Stat. 731-732, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1430(a), (b) (1932).
125  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 10(a)(1), (2), 47 Stat. 731-732, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1430(a)(1), (2) (1932).
126  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 6(c), 47 Stat. 727-728, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1426(f) (1932).
127  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 6(f), 47 Stat. 728-729, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1426(g) (1932).  Hoffmann & Cassell at 37.  Once the 
amount of capital paid in by members equaled the amount paid in by the Secretary of the Treasury, an FHLBank was required to 
gradually repurchase at par and retire the capital stock held by the United States.  The final Treasury stock was paid off on July 2, 
1951.
128  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 11(a), 47 Stat. 733, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1431(a) (1932). 
wished to encourage that tendency.123  Each 
FHLBank was authorized to make advances 
to members based on the security of current 
home mortgages, excluding mortgages with 
more than 15 years to maturity or secured 
by real estate having a value of more than 
$20,000.
124  Amortized home mortgage loans 
with an original term of at least eight years 
were treated favorably, being subject to a 
lower required discount than other types of 
mortgage collateral.
125  
The Bank Act authorized each FHLBank 
to issue capital stock and established 
minimum stock purchase requirements for 
members.
126  The Bank Act required the 
Treasury to purchase that portion of the 
minimum required stock of each FHLBank 
that was not purchased by members.
127  Each 
FHLBank was also authorized to issue secured 
bonds and debentures, as approved by the 
FHLBB.
128  Although the original Bank Act did 
not authorize the issuance of consolidated 
obligations, it provided that the FHLBanks 
were to be jointly and severally liable for the 
principal and interest due on each other’s 

77
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
individual debt.129  As is the case currently, all 
obligations of the FHLBanks were required 
to “plainly state that such obligations are not 
obligations of the United States and are not 
guaranteed by the United States.”
130
The FHLBB chose to establish the maximum 
permissible 12 FHLBanks.  They opened for 
business on October 15, 1932, and made their 
first advances a few months later.
HOLC and the National Housing Act
In 1933, in a further effort to stem home 
mortgage defaults and foreclosures, Congress 
passed the Home Owners’ Loan Act,
131 
which created the Home Owners’ Loan 
Corporation (HOLC), under the administration 
of the FHLBB.  The HOLC bought delinquent 
mortgages from lenders and refinanced the 
loans at lower interest rates, lowered the 
monthly payments, and extended the period 
for repayment to help people keep their 
homes.  The Home Owners’ Loan Act also 
authorized the FHLBB to begin chartering 
federal savings and loan associations and 
entrusted it with their regulation and 
supervision.  The creation of a federal 
thrift charter was intended to facilitate 
the establishment of “local mutual thrift 
institutions” in areas without an existing 
129  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 11(f), 47 Stat. 734, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1431(f) (1932).
130  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 15, 47 Stat. 736, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1435 (1932).
131  Pub. L. No. 73-64, 48 Stat. 128 (1933).
132  See 1937-38 FHLBB Annual Report at 23.
133  Pub. L. No. 73-479, 48 Stat. 1246 (1934).
134  National Housing Act Amendments of 1938, Pub. L. No. 75-424, 52 Stat. 8 (1938).
135  See Serviceman’s Readjustment Act of 1944, Pub L. No. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284 (1944).
financial institution that provided mortgage 
lending.  All federal thrifts were required to 
be FHLBank members.
132  For the next 56 
years, the FHLBank System and the national 
thrift system were in many respects the same, 
with the FHLBanks being delegated various 
supervisory authorities over their member 
thrifts for much of that time.
The passage of the National Housing Act of 
1934
133  further altered the home lending 
landscape by creating the Federal Housing 
Administration (FHA) to insure mortgages 
and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance 
Corporation (FSLIC) to insure thrift deposits.   
Congress authorized Fannie Mae,  then a 
government corporation, to buy FHA-insured 
home mortgages in 1938
134 and, later, to buy 
Veterans Administration mortgages.135
FSLIC was under the administration of the 
FHLBB, which also constituted its board.  
Federally-chartered thrifts were required 
by law to carry FSLIC insurance and state-
chartered thrifts could choose to do so.  
Similar to the role of the FDIC, which had 
been created in 1933 to insure deposits in 
commercial banks, FSLIC was authorized to 
provide loans to troubled thrifts, arrange for 
them to be absorbed by stronger institutions, 

78
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
or wind them down and pay out their insured 
deposits to savers if needed.136 
The National Housing Act also amended 
the Bank Act to provide for the issuance of 
FHLBank System consolidated obligations, in 
addition to individual FHLBank debt.
137  In the 
first few years of their operation, the capital 
provided by the U.S. Treasury and member 
institutions proved sufficient to meet the 
financial requirements of the FHLBanks.  In 
1937, however, the FHLBanks tapped the 
public debt markets for the first time with an 
initial offering of $24.7 million in consolidated 
obligations.  The issuance was “oversubscribed 
many times within a few hours.”
138  Since that 
time, the FHLBanks have been significant 
participants in the capital markets, and there 
has been strong investor demand for their 
securities issuances.  Between 1932 and 
1948, the FHLBanks, with the approval of the 
FHLBB, collectively employed a fiscal agent 
to issue, and perform payment and other 
functions in connection with, the consolidated 
obligations.
139  In 1948, the FHLBB adopted 
regulations bringing the fiscal agent’s activities 
within the FHLBank System in the form 
of the Office of Fiscal Agent,
140 which was 
reorganized as the Office of Finance in 1972.141 
136  See A Guide to the Federal Home Loan Bank System (Mar. 1987) at 10-11.
137  See Pub. L. No. 73-479, § 503, 48 Stat. 1261. 
138  See 1936-37 FHLBB Annual Report at 15.
139  See GAO Report B-226708, 1988 WL 228055 (Sept. 6, 1988).
140  See 24 CFR § 122.80 (1949). 
141  See Jonathan A. Scott, The Federal Home Loan Banks Office of Finance, Governance Challenges Within a Cooperative 
(FHLBanks Office of Finance, 2019) at 8.
142  See The Federal Home Loan Bank System 1932-1952 (1952) at 62-63.
143  See The Federal Home Loan Bank System (1961) at 43.
144  See The Federal Home Loan Bank System 1932-1952 (1952) at 62-63.
145  See The Federal Home Loan Bank System (1961) at 44.
World War II and Post-War
In the early days after the December 1941 
attack on Pearl Harbor, the FHLBanks helped 
stabilize members by supplying liquidity 
to mitigate heavy savings withdrawals.
142   
Although few homes were built during World 
War II, the FHLBanks maintained a moderate 
level of lending activity.
143   The FHLBanks 
were also active in helping finance war costs, 
becoming a channel through which war bonds 
were purchased, issued, and redeemed, 
and extending advances to assist member 
thrifts in purchasing war bonds for their own 
portfolios.
144   
While the FHLBanks’ advance growth was 
interrupted by the war, it resumed at an 
accelerated pace after the war.  Post-war 
increases in advances reflected the growth 
of member thrifts, the high level of activity in 
building, purchasing, and financing homes, 
and the general rise in prices.
145  The FHLBank 
System was designed partly as a means of 
moving money for mortgage lending from 
areas where it was abundant to areas in 
which there was an unmet demand.  This 
function was demonstrated in the 1950s and 
1960s, when the FHLBanks tapped abundant 

79
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
sources of capital in the eastern United 
States to provide funds for homebuilding 
and home mortgage lending to fast-growing 
western states with a deficit of capital, such as 
California and Arizona.
146  
Although the FHLBank System made a 
meaningful contribution in facilitating home 
construction and ownership in the post-
war years, these benefits were not available 
to all Americans.  The FHLBB and HOLC 
engaged in discriminatory home mortgage 
redlining practices that are now illegal, with 
long-term negative impacts on people and 
neighborhoods.
147   In the 1940s and 1950s, 
the FHLBB and HOLC, along with the FHA, used 
Residential Security Maps (which designated 
an area as “hazardous” if even a small share of 
the population was African American), as part 
of their examinations and mortgage lending 
decisions.
148   
1960s and 1970s — Increasing Interest 
Rate Instability and the Creation of Freddie 
Mac
Thrifts grew and prospered in the 1950s largely 
because of stable interest rates; however, 
in the 1960s, economic conditions began 
to change.  Thrifts started to face increased 
146  See The Federal Home Loan Bank System (1961) at 46.
147  See Bruce Mitchell & Juan Franco, HOLC “Redlining” Maps:  The Persistent Structure of Segregation and Inequality, 
(National Community Reinvestment Coalition, 2018), available at  
https://ncrc.org/wp-content/uploads/dlm_uploads/2018/02/NCRC-Research-HOLC-10.pdf.  See also Kenneth T. Jackson, 
Crabgrass Frontier: The Suburbanization of the United States (Oxford University Press, 1985) at 197, 203.
148 See Hoffmann & Cassell at 73, citing Douglas S. Massey & Nancy A. Denton, American Apartheid: Segregation and the Making 
of the Underclass (Harvard University Press, 1993).  See also Jackson at 201. 
149  See A Guide to the Federal Home Loan Bank System (Mar. 1987) at 13-14.
150  See Emergency Home Finance Act of 1970, Pub. L. No. 91-351, Title III, 84 Stat. 450, 451-458 (1970).
151  See A Guide to the Federal Home Loan Bank System (Mar. 1987) at 14, 56-57.
152  See Hoffmann & Cassell at 47-48.  Ginnie Mae pioneered the use of the pass-through security slightly before Freddie Mac.
competition for deposits from commercial 
banks, which could pay interest rates that 
thrifts could not match, and from other 
investment vehicles.  In a series of legislative 
and regulatory acts beginning in the late 1960s 
and continuing through the 1980s, Congress 
and other policymakers sought to make thrifts 
more competitive by expanding their lending 
authorities beyond home finance, allowing 
them to operate in ever-widening geographic 
areas, and authorizing them to pay higher 
rates of interest on savings accounts than 
commercial banks were permitted to pay.
149 
In the wake of a credit crunch that essentially 
halted mortgage lending and homebuilding, 
Congress created Freddie Mac in 1970 to 
provide a secondary market primarily for home 
mortgages originated by thrifts and other 
FHLBank members.
150  Freddie Mac was to 
operate under the direction of the FHLBB and 
it began operations with $100 million raised by 
selling stock to the FHLBanks.
151   Freddie Mac 
was authorized to issue not only debt securities 
to fund loans held in portfolio, but also 
innovative new securities—called participation 
certificates—which would allow investors to 
own a beneficial interest in a pool of underlying 
mortgages.
152   

80
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
1980s — The Thrift Crisis and FIRREA
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, interest 
rate volatility made it difficult for thrifts to 
rely on deposits as a source of funding for 
home loans.  Short-term rates rose above the 
levels thrifts were allowed to pay on deposits, 
and many depositors moved their savings to 
alternatives such as money market funds.
153   
In response, Congress passed legislation 
to lift interest rate limitations,
154  but many 
thrifts became insolvent due to the interest 
rate mismatch between their low-yielding 
long-term assets (mortgages) and high-cost 
deposits.  In response, Congress allowed 
thrifts to try to boost earnings by investing in 
assets beyond traditional home mortgages.  
Relatedly, Congress also authorized the FHLBB 
to broaden eligible advance collateral, and the 
FHLBB then permitted the FHLBanks to take as 
collateral any property they found acceptable 
and in which they could secure an interest.
155 
None of these steps were adequate to 
maintain the viability of the thrift system, 
and by 1987, the FSLIC was insolvent.  The 
Competitive Equality Banking Act provided 
for the recapitalization of the FSLIC through 
the Financing Corporation (FICO), which 
153  The Interest Rate Control Act of 1966 gave the FHLBB the authority to regulate rates that thrifts paid on various types of 
deposits.  Until interest rate limits were phased out, the FHLBB typically set deposit rates higher than the rates for commercial 
banks to attract deposits to fund housing loans.  Hoffmann & Cassell at 45.
154  See Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act (DIDMCA) of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-221, 94 Stat. 132 
(1980).
155  See Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-320, §§ 321-335, 352, 96 Stat. 1499-1505, 1507  
(1982).
156  Pub. L. No. 100-86, 101 Stat. 552 (1987).  The Financing Corporation was capitalized by the FHLBanks, who were required 
to cede $600 million in retained earnings. Dirk S. Adams & Rodney R. Peck, FIRREA and the New Federal Home Loan Bank 
System, Santa Clara Law Review, Vol. 32, No. 1 (Jan. 1, 1992) at 23-24.  The Financing Corporation paid off its last long-term debt 
obligation on September 26, 2019 and was dissolved in 2020. 
157  See Pub. L. No. 100-86, 101 Stat. 602 § 306(d).
was authorized to issue obligations of up to 
$10.825 billion in the capital markets.156   To 
encourage the FHLBanks to help stabilize 
distressed thrifts, it also added the so-called 
“super lien” provision to the Bank Act.  
This provision gave the FHLBanks’ security 
interests in advance collateral priority over 
those of creditors, including the FSLIC, with 
unperfected security interests in the same 
assets.
157   Ultimately, the measures mandated 
by the Competitive Equality Banking Act 
were inadequate to stem continuing losses 
sustained by the thrift industry, and it became 
apparent that more comprehensive changes 
needed to be made to the thrift system, 
including the FHLBank System.
Such comprehensive change came in 1989 
through FIRREA, which restructured the 
apparatus of federal thrift supervision and 
insurance, while making provisions for the 
resolution of the thrift crisis.  In conjunction 
with these steps, FIRREA disassembled 
the FHLBank System as it then existed and 
established the fundamental parameters 
of the FHLBank System as it exists today.  
Congress dissolved the FHLBB and split its 
regulatory functions between the newly 

81
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
formed Office of Thrift Supervision, to act as 
federal thrift regulator, and the Finance Board, 
as regulator of the FHLBanks.  The FSLIC was 
dissolved and a new Savings Association 
Insurance Fund was established within the 
FDIC.
158  Freddie Mac was removed from 
the FHLBank System and its ownership was 
privatized through freely traded stock.
To resolve troubled thrifts, FIRREA established 
the RTC and created the Resolution Funding 
Corporation to fund the RTC.  The FHLBanks 
were required to cede an additional $2.8 
billion in retained earnings to defease the 
bonds issued by REFCorp, and to contribute 
up to $300 million per year from the FHLBank 
System’s annual earnings for interest 
payments on the bonds. 
In the first fundamental change to the 
FHLBank System’s membership structure 
since its inception, FIRREA amended the 
Bank Act to permit (but not require) federally 
insured commercial banks and credit unions 
to become FHLBank members, provided that 
they had at least 10 percent of their assets 
in residential mortgage loans.
159   Unlike the 
thrifts that had composed virtually the entirety 
of the FHLBank System’s membership rolls for 
decades, commercial banks were not required 
by charter to focus on home mortgage 
lending.  To encourage such a focus, FIRREA 
158  In 2006, the Savings Association Insurance Fund was combined with the FDIC’s Bank Insurance Fund.
159  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 704, 103 Stat. 415-416, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1424(a).
160  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 714, 103 Stat. 419-421, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1430(a).
161  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 721, 103 Stat. 423-426, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1430(j).
162  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 721, 103 Stat. 423, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1430(i).
required that long-term advances be used 
only for “residential housing finance,” and re-
established collateral eligibility requirements 
centered on mortgage and real estate-related 
assets.  It also limited advances to members 
not qualifying as “Qualified Thrift Lenders,” 
who were required to have a minimum 
of 65 percent of assets in housing-related 
investments.
160  
Codifying targeted lending programs in the 
Bank Act for the first time, FIRREA required 
each FHLBank to establish an AHP to provide 
funds through its members to support 
affordable housing for very low- and low- or 
moderate-income households by contributing 
annually at least 10 percent of its prior year’s 
net earnings to fund the program.
161   FIRREA 
also required each FHLBank to operate a CIP 
to provide low-cost advances to its members 
to support “community-oriented lending,” 
without mandating any required minimum 
funding contribution.  Each FHLBank was also 
required to appoint a Community Investment 
Officer who would be responsible for the 
operation of the AHP and CIP .
162  In addition, 
each FHLBank was required to establish an 
Affordable Housing Advisory Council to advise 
on the FHLBank’s low- or moderate-income 
housing programs and needs in the district, as 
well as on utilization of FHLBank advances for 

82
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
these purposes and to submit annual reports with these analyses to the Finance Board.163  
Finally, FIRREA altered the required composition of the FHLBanks’ boards of directors by 
increasing the number of regulator-appointed directors from two to six and requiring that two 
of these six directors be representatives from organizations with more than a two-year history 
of representing consumer or community interests on banking services, credit needs, housing, or 
financial consumer protections.
164 
Post-FIRREA
During 1989 and 1990, the FHLBanks’ membership and advance activity contracted as thrifts 
continued to fail.  But in 1992, the FHLBanks began what would be a sustained growth trajectory
as they started to design new advance products to meet the needs of commercial banks.
165  The 
number of commercial banks in the FHLBank System began to grow rapidly, and by the end of 
1994, they composed a majority of FHLBank members.  Their membership continued to grow 
through 2005, before beginning a slow decline that continues today, primarily due to industry 
consolidation.
163  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 721, 103 Stat. 425-26, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11).
164  See Pub. L. No. 101–73, § 707, 103 Stat. 417, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1427(a).
165  See Hoffmann & Cassell at 54, 161 (fn. 19).
FIGURE 2-C: FHLBANK ADVANCES OUTSTANDING SINCE 1964 (BOOK VALUE)
Source: Based on FHLBank data, book value, as of June 30, 2023

83
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
Until 1999, the FHLBanks’ REFCorp obligation 
was a fixed dollar amount.  To help fund this 
obligation, the FHLBanks began to bring in 
new members and take other steps aimed 
at increasing profits, such as increasing 
their holdings of agency MBS and other 
investments.
166   By the mid-1990s, the 
FHLBanks collectively had a slightly greater 
portion of assets in investments than in 
advances. 
The growth of the FHLBanks’ investment 
portfolios gave rise to assertions that the 
FHLBanks were engaging in arbitrage, taking 
funds raised though issuance of their relatively 
low interest consolidated obligations and 
investing them in more profitable MBS and 
federal funds, and were straying from their 
public mission.  Eventually, greater borrowing 
by growing numbers of commercial bank 
members tilted the balance back toward 
advances.
In the late 1990s, several FHLBanks initiated 
pilot programs under which they began to 
acquire whole mortgage loans from member 
institutions.  These programs were intended 
to provide an alternative secondary market 
for member institutions and allow them to 
earn more on the mortgages they originated 
than by selling them to Fannie Mae or Freddie 
Mac.  Full authorization to engage in these 
programs on an ongoing basis was codified 
with the Finance Board’s adoption of the AMA 
166  At the time of FIRREA, FHLBank investments in MBS had been capped at 50 percent of capital, but the Finance Board 
raised the limit to 300 percent, where it remains today. See 12 CFR 1267.3(c).
167  See 65 FR 43969 (July 17, 2000), codified at 12 CFR part 1268.
168  See Pub. L. No. 102-550, § 1393, 106 Stat. 3672 (1992).
regulation in 2000.167   
In 1992, Congress passed the Housing 
and Community Development Act, which 
required a number of studies analyzing and 
making recommendations with respect to 
various topics relating to the FHLBanks, 
including appropriate capital standards, 
expansion of credit products and services and 
eligible collateral for advances, support for 
community-based lenders, the overall role of 
the FHLBank System in housing finance, and 
the likelihood that the FHLBanks would be 
able to continue to pay their annual REFCorp 
obligation.
168   The studies served as a basis for 
a number of legislative changes that were later 
adopted.
Ten years after FIRREA, the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System Modernization Act of 
1999 made further changes to the statutory 
scheme under which the FHLBanks operate.  It 
made membership voluntary for all FHLBank 
member institutions, established a new 
permanent capital structure for the FHLBanks, 
established leverage requirements, changed 
the REFCorp obligation from a fixed dollar 
amount to 20 percent of the FHLBank System’s 
annual earnings after AHP contributions, 
and eliminated the Qualified Thrift Lender 
provisions. It also added provisions allowing 
CFIs to pledge an expanded range of collateral 
(specifically secured loans relating to small 
business, small farm, and small agri-business) 

84
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
and to use long-term advances—previously 
permitted only for residential housing finance 
purposes—for providing funds for small 
businesses, small farms, and small agri-
businesses.
169  
In 2004, the Finance Board issued a rule 
requiring the FHLBanks to register their 
stock with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission despite it not being publicly 
traded.
170   The Finance Board adopted this 
rule, in part, to ensure full and consistent 
disclosure of financial information across the 
FHLBank System for the benefit of market 
participants and to create a standard for 
compliance from all FHLBanks.  In accordance 
with the timeline set by the Finance Board, the 
FHLBanks completed this registration in 2005.  
The registration requirement was codified into 
statute by the Housing and Economic Recovery 
Act of 2008.
171 
The Financial Crisis and HERA
As the Financial Crisis began to unfold in 
2007, the FHLBank System proved to be an 
important provider of liquidity and was the 
largest lender to U.S. depository institutions.
172   
During that time, the FHLBanks and the 
Federal Reserve worked in complementary 
169  See Pub. L. No. 106–102, §§ 601-6084(a), 113 Stat. 1338, 1450-14631 (1999).  In 2008, Congress expanded the definition 
of CFI collateral to include secured loans for community development activities.  See Housing and Economic Recovery Act, Pub. 
L. No. 110-289, § 1211, 122 Stat. 2790 (2008).
170  See 69 FR 38799 (2004).
171  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, § 1112, 122 Stat. 2677.
172  A.B. Ashcraft, M.L. Bech, & W.S. Frame, The Federal Home Loan Bank System: The Lender of Next-to-Last Resort? (Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, Nov. 2008) at 5, 22, available at https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff_reports/sr357.html.  
173  Pub. L. No. 110-289, 122 Stat. 2654 (2008).
174  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, §§ 1101, 1301, 1311, 122 Stat. 2661, 2794, 2797.
175  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, §§ 1109-1111, 1141-1158, 122 Stat. 2674-77, 2730-2778 (2008).
ways, with the FHLBank System taking on 
some of the demand from the Federal Reserve 
discount window and providing less expensive 
domestic liquidity.  
On July 30, 2008, President George W. Bush 
signed HERA
173 into law.  HERA restructured 
the regulation of the FHLBanks and Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac (the Enterprises) 
by merging the Office of Federal Housing 
Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO), which had 
regulated the Enterprises, and the Finance 
Board into the newly established FHFA as the 
independent regulator of both the FHLBanks 
and the Enterprises.  HERA also transferred 
the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development’s Enterprise policy and mission 
oversight functions to FHFA.
174
HERA granted FHFA the authority to ensure 
the safety and soundness of these regulated 
entities by setting capital standards, setting 
prudential management standards, enforcing 
orders through cease-and-desist authority and 
civil money penalties, limiting asset growth 
and capital distributions for undercapitalized 
institutions, placing a regulated entity into 
receivership, and reviewing and approving 
new Enterprise product offerings.
175  

85
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
HERA also added CDFIs to the types of 
institutions eligible for FHLBank membership,  
instituted affordable housing goals for the 
FHLBanks, and required FHFA to establish a 
public use database for the FHLBanks’ AMA 
programs.
176  The legislation also adjusted 
the dollar threshold below which an FDIC-
insured depository institution qualifies 
as a CFI from $500 million to $1 billion 
(adjustable for inflation).  In addition, HERA 
temporarily authorized the FHLBanks to 
use AHP subsidized advances to refinance 
homeownership loans for low- or moderate-
income households.
177  HERA also eliminated 
the longstanding power of the FHLBank 
System regulator to appoint a portion of each
176  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, §§ 1205, 1206, 1211, 1212, 122 Stat. 2786-2787, 2790. 
177  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, § 1218, 122 Stat. 2793. FHLBank authority to use AHP subsidized advances for this purpose was 
for a two-year period and limited to first mortgages on primary residences, subject to a regulation issued by the Finance Board 
to implement this temporary statutory authority.  The regulation was sunset after the two-year period.
178  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, § 1202, 122 Stat. 2783-2785.
179  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, § 1209, 122 Stat. 2789.
FHLBank’s directors and vested in member 
institutions the power to elect the entirety 
of an FHLBank’s board of directors (while 
continuing to require that a portion of board 
directors be independent).
178  HERA further 
provided that, in addition to the Agency’s 
existing general authority to establish and 
liquidate FHLBanks as well as define their 
districts, any two or more FHLBanks could 
merge voluntarily with the approval of FHFA 
and the boards of directors of the FHLBanks 
involved in the merger.
179  This authority was 
exercised in 2015 when the FHLBank of Des 
Moines absorbed the FHLBank of Seattle in a 
voluntary merger. 

86
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future86
FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future86
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
MEMBERSHIP
When the Bank Act was originally enacted in 1932, FHLBank membership was limited to thrift 
institutions (described as “any building and loan association, savings and loan association, 
cooperative bank, homestead association, . . . or savings bank”) and insurance companies, 
provided they were duly organized, were subject to inspection, and made long-term home 
mortgage loans.  An institution was considered ineligible for membership if its financial 
condition was “such that advances may not safely be made” to it or the character of its 
management or its home-financing policy was “inconsistent with sound and economical 
home financing,” or with the purposes of the Bank Act.
180   With the advent of the federal 
savings association charter in 1934, those institutions were required to be FHLBank members.  
Membership remained voluntary for state-chartered thrifts and insurance companies.  
Throughout most of the FHLBanks’ history until 1989, the FHLBanks had very few, and at times 
no, insurance company members.
In 1989, as it rethought the structure and composition of the FHLBank System, Congress in 
FIRREA extended FHLBank membership to all “insured depository institutions,” including 
FDIC-insured commercial banks and thrifts and credit unions insured by the NCUA.  FIRREA 
included multiple provisions intended to ensure that the newly eligible institutions engaged 
to some extent in residential mortgage lending.  Thus, a commercial bank or credit union was 
required to have at least 10 percent of its assets in residential mortgage loans to be eligible 
for membership.  Congress also limited the extent to which commercial bank and credit 
union members could obtain advances by imposing certain limitations, which were based 
on the status of those institutions as Qualified Thrift Lenders.
181   Under those provisions, a 
member that was not a Qualified Thrift Lender was required to purchase greater amounts of 
FHLBank stock for a given level of advances, could apply for advances only for housing finance 
purposes, and was assigned a lower priority for obtaining advances than the Qualified Thrift 
Lender members.  Congress also capped the volume of advances that each FHLBank could have 
outstanding to its non-Qualified Thrift Lender members at 30 percent of the FHLBank’s total 
advances.
182  
In 1999, Congress repealed nearly all of the “non-Qualified Thrift Lender restrictions” on 
commercial bank and credit union members, retaining only the requirement that such 
institutions have at least 10 percent of assets in residential mortgage loans to be admitted to 
membership.
183   It also introduced the concept of CFIs (FDIC-insured depositories having total 
180  See Pub. L. No. 72-304, § 4(a), 47 Stat. 726.
181  See Pub. L. No. 101-73, §§ 704(a), 714(b) , 103 Stat. 415-416, 420-421.
182  See Pub. L. No. 102-550, § 1392(a), 106 Stat. 4009 (establishing the 30 percent limit for advances to members that are 
not Qualified Thrift Lenders).
183  See Pub. L. No. 106–102, § 604, 13 Stat. 1452.

87 FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future87 FHLB System at 100: Focusing on the Future 87FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
assets below a statutory threshold) and exempted them from the 10 percent requirement, as 
well as allowing them to pledge a wider range of collateral.184
In 2008, Congress made CDFIs eligible for membership.185   Effectively, this extended 
membership to non-depository CDFIs, with CDFI banks and credit unions having already been 
eligible as “insured depository institutions” since 1989.  In 2015, membership was further 
extended to non-federally-insured credit unions meeting certain requirements.
186   
Prior to 1989, nearly 100 percent of members had been thrift institutions.187  By 2004, thrift 
institution representation had declined to 16 percent of total membership as the number of 
thrift institutions in existence decreased, with commercial banks representing 73 percent and 
credit unions representing 10 percent of total members.
188   That trend for thrift institutions has 
continued, as they represented approximately 9 percent of the membership base as of June 30, 
2023, while commercial banks, credit unions, and insurance companies represented 57 percent, 
25 percent, and 9 percent of total members, respectively.
189 
184  See Pub. L. No. 106–102, §§ 602, 604, 13 Stat. 1450-1451.
185  See Pub. L. No. 110-289, § 1206, 122 Stat. 2787.
186  See Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, Pub. L. No. 114-94, § 82001 (2015).
187  See, e.g., Federal Home Loan Bank Board, Federal Home Loan Bank Board Journal, at 7 (1989) (indicating that 
membership of the FHLBank System was 3,331 savings and loan associations and savings banks, and only 7 members of other 
kinds).
188  See GAO Testimony Before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, U.S. Senate, Federal Home Loan Bank 
System, statement of Thomas J. McCool, Managing Director Financial Markets and Community Interests, GAO-05-489T (Apr. 13, 
2005).  Insurance companies represented just over 1 percent of members as of December 31, 2004.
189  See Federal Home Loan Banks, Combined Financial Report (June 30, 2023) at 63.  Total membership was 6,487 
institutions.  Non-depository CDFIs, which were authorized to become members in 2008, represented just over 1 percent of 
members. 
FIGURE 2-D: FHLBANK MEMBERSHIP (1989-2023Q2)
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023

88
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
On July 15, 2011, nearly 22 years after the 
enactment of FIRREA, the FHLBanks fulfilled 
their final REFCorp obligation payment.  
Concurrently, FHFA announced that it had 
approved the addition of substantively 
identical provisions to each FHLBank’s capital 
plan (except for the FHLBank of Chicago, which 
was not yet operating under an approved 
capital plan) obligating each FHLBank 
to allocate 20 percent of its net income 
(equivalent to the funds previously used to 
pay the REFCorp obligation) to a restricted 
retained earnings account until the account 
equals one percent of that FHLBank’s share 
of outstanding consolidated obligations.  This 
approach had been developed collaboratively 
among the FHLBanks and was approved by 
FHFA as an appropriate safety and soundness 
action in view of the FHLBanks’ joint and 
several obligations on FHLBank System 
consolidated obligations.
In December 2015, Congress amended the 
Bank Act to authorize the FHLBanks to approve 
applications for membership from state-
chartered credit unions without federal share 
insurance (regardless of their CDFI status) 
where specified requirements have been 
met.
190 Subsequently, in 2016, FHFA adopted 
a regulation to curtail membership eligibility 
of captive insurance subsidiaries, which were 
used to circumvent membership eligibility 
requirements of the Bank Act (primarily by 
190  See Pub. L. No. 114-94, § 82001(a), 129 Stat. 1795, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1424(a)(5). FHFA adopted implementing 
regulations in 2017.  See 82 FR 25716 (June 5, 2017).
191  See 81 FR 3246 (Jan 20, 2016).
192  See 12 CFR 1263.1.
mortgage REIT parent or affiliate companies) 
to gain access to FHLBank advances to fund 
their own operations and investments.
191  
In the years immediately prior to the 
publication of the rule, the number of new 
membership applications from captive 
insurers increased significantly.  This trend 
raised concerns at FHFA that captive insurers 
were being promoted and used as vehicles 
to obtain FHLBank membership benefits, 
including access to FHLBank funding, by 
institutions ineligible for membership by 
statute.  Moreover, captive insurers’ level of 
advances activity was disproportionately large 
in relation to their own business operations 
and related investment needs, and many of 
the parent companies were guaranteeing 
repayment of the advances made to their 
captive insurer subsidiaries and providing 
the collateral for those advances.  Most of 
the parent companies that received indirect 
FHLBank funding through those captive 
insurance subsidiaries were not themselves 
subject to inspection and regulation by 
federal or state banking regulators or by 
state insurance regulators.  The regulation 
addresses this supervisory concern by defining 
the term “insurance company”—which is not 
defined in the Bank Act—to exclude captives, 
thereby rendering them ineligible for FHLBank 
membership.
192   

89
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW OF FHLBANK SYSTEM
During the COVID-19 pandemic, FHFA 
authorized the FHLBanks to accept Paycheck 
Protection Program loans as eligible 
collateral.
193   The FHLBanks provided 
additional flexibilities and support to help 
members and their communities respond 
to financial hardships, including offering 
discounted advance funding and collateral 
relief programs to members, expanding 
voluntary grant programs to 
193  FHFA issued a public guidance letter to the FHLBanks, available at  
https://www.fhfa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-05/PPP-Loans-as-Collateral-for-FHLBank-Advances.pdf. 
enable small businesses to stay afloat, and 
increasing charitable contributions.   Most 
recently, in March 2023, the FHLBanks 
experienced significant member advance 
demand because of banking sector volatility 
caused by member bank failures.  For more 
information pertaining to the failures, FHFA, 
and the FHLBanks’ response, please refer to 
Appendix 5. 
Photo courtesy of Esperanza, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on 
the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information.  

90
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 3: FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE – APPROACH
APPENDIX 3: FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE — 
APPROACH
FHFA organized the initiative’s public engagement into phases that provided multiple 
opportunities for input (see Figure 3-A below).  FHFA drew on feedback received in listening 
sessions, roundtables, and other discussions with stakeholders, as well as through written 
comments, when preparing this report.
FIGURE 3-A. PHASES OF THE FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE 
Phase 1:  Kick-off Listening Session 
FHFA began the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future initiative with a public listening 
session.  In total, 83 speakers presented their thoughts over three days: September 29 and 30, 
and October 4, 2022.  While listening session participants were welcome to address any topic 
related to the FHLBank System, FHFA requested feedback on six areas:
• FHLBanks’ mission and purpose
• Organization, operational efficiency, and effectiveness of the FHLBank System
• FHLBank System’s role in promoting affordable housing and community development
• Needs of rural and financially vulnerable communities
• Member products and services
• Membership eligibility requirements
194
194  Visit www.fhfa.gov/FHLB100 to see topics on which FHFA specifically requested feedback.


91
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 3: FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE – APPROACH
In addition to helping FHFA identify areas in 
need of additional discussion and exploration 
during subsequent phases of the review, 
the feedback also directly informed the 
preparation of this report. 
Community banks and trade associations 
accounted for the largest number of speakers 
at the kick-off listening session, followed by 
affordable housing developers and CDFIs.  
Other speakers included representatives of 
credit unions, insurance companies, mortgage 
companies, and housing finance agencies, 
as well as academic researchers and other 
individuals.  Several of the speakers currently 
serve, or previously served, on the board of 
an FHLBank, as either a member director or 
independent director, or on an FHLBank’s 
Affordable Housing Advisory Council, and 
spoke in their official or personal capacity. 
Phase 2:  Regional Roundtable Discussions
Following the kick-off listening session, FHFA 
completed the second phase of the initiative—
regional roundtable discussions 
195  See the FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future initiative web page, available at www.fhfa.gov/FHLB100, for 
additional information, including a synopsis of each roundtable and site visit, a complete list of roundtable participants, and 
discussion questions sent to participants in advance of each roundtable discussion.
designed to probe into the feedback received 
at the listening session and through written 
input.  FHFA staff traveled to locations across 
the country and invited local stakeholders 
and subject matter experts to discuss specific 
topics, including those of local or regional 
concern.  Each event was livestreamed, and 
recordings and transcripts are available on the 
FHFA website and YouTube channel.
195 
Whenever possible, FHFA worked with local 
organizations to conduct site visits for FHFA 
staff to view projects or areas of need.  For 
example, FHFA visited a food hall under 
construction in a Baltimore neighborhood 
to help address the lack of healthy dining 
options, affordable rental apartments 
mainly serving Native Americans outside 
Oklahoma City, and the site of a new housing 
development for low-income seniors in rural 
Ohio.  These visits provided an opportunity 
to see firsthand how communities are 
responding to local housing and community 
development challenges, and where FHLBank 
resources have been—or could be—helping to 
address these challenges.  

92
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 3: FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE – APPROACH
FIGURE 3-B. REGIONAL ROUNDTABLE LOCATIONS, TOPICS, AND DATES
Location Topic Date
Washington, DC Mission and purpose of the FHLBank System November 2, 2022
Chicago, IL Affordable housing and community development 
in financially vulnerable communities
November 17, 2022
Indianola, MS Affordable housing and community development 
in rural and underserved communities
November 21, 2022
Oklahoma City, OK Native housing and community development, Part 
1: Tribal housing authorities and banks
December 1, 2022
Washington, DC Native housing and community development, Part 
2: CDFIs and nonprofits
December 8, 2022
Baltimore, MD Communities of color and closing the racial 
homeownership gap
December 12, 2022
Philadelphia, PA Membership eligibility and requirements, 
collateral, and safety and soundness
December 15, 2022
Las Vegas, NV CDFIs, community and economic development February 13, 2023
Los Angeles, CA Affordable housing and community development 
in financially vulnerable communities
February 15, 2023
Boise, ID Support for emerging high-cost areas February 17, 2023
Athens, OH Affordable housing and community development 
in rural and underserved communities
February 27, 2023
Detroit, MI Member products and services, Part 1 March 1, 2023
Washington, DC Member products and services, Part 2 March 3, 2023
Wilmington, NC Climate resiliency March 6, 2023
San Juan, PR Access to the FHLBank System March 8, 2023
Boston, MA Corporate governance and system structure March 13, 2023
Hawaii and American 
Samoa (virtual)
Access to the FHLBank System March 17, 2023
Guam and the 
Northern Mariana 
Islands (virtual)
Access to the FHLBank System March 17, 2023
Alaska (virtual) Access to the FHLBank System March 20, 2023

93
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 3: FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE – APPROACH
Phase 3:  Wrap-Up Listening Session
FHFA closed out the public input phase of 
the initiative with a 3-day listening session 
on March 22, 23, and 24, 2023, with 38 
individuals providing input.  In addition to the 
six areas identified at the start of the initiative, 
FHFA encouraged listening session participants 
to discuss topics covered during the first 
listening session and respond to questions 
posed at the regional roundtables.
196   
Written Input
FHFA also solicited public written input in two 
rounds, coinciding with the kick-off and wrap-
up listening sessions, and in total, received 
submissions from almost 600 stakeholders.  
Nearly 70 percent of these came from insured 
depository institutions and trade associations.  
The composition of organization types 
submitting comments shifted significantly 
between the first round and second round, 
with CDFIs and Cooperativas accounting for 
over a quarter of the comments in the second 
round as compared to less than 5 percent in 
the first round.  
Other Engagements
In addition to the listening sessions, 
roundtables, and written input, FHFA engaged 
with other stakeholders, including FHLBank 
staff and leadership, as well as peer regulators.  
Meetings with these organizations helped 
supplement input received through the public 
events.  FHFA also engaged with Congress 
196  The collected list of questions is available, by roundtable, on FHFA’s website, at www.fhfa.gov/FHLB100.   
through direct communication received from 
several Representatives and Senators during 
the public input period.  
Engagement with FHLBank Staff and 
Leadership
FHFA annual examinations, mid-cycle 
visitations, and periodic meetings with the 
FHLBanks continued throughout the initiative, 
during which FHLBank representatives 
shared their perspectives on topics raised 
in the public events.  FHFA also met with a 
small group of FHLBank Presidents to gather 
information on certain issues and practices, 
including alternative means of achieving 
supervisory objectives.  The FHLBank 
Presidents also shared preliminary plans for 
addressing some of the issues raised during 
the public discussions. 
At the annual Affordable Housing Advisory 
Council Leadership Meeting in October 
2022, FHFA brought together Affordable 
Housing Advisory Council members, FHLBank 
Community Investment Officers, and other 
FHLBank staff to offer their perspectives 
on affordable housing and community 
development needs and the FHLBanks’ ability 
to address them through new and existing 
programs, including voluntary programs.  FHFA 
also hosted five “Visioning Sessions” with 
Affordable Housing Advisory Council members 
from across the country.  Participants were 
asked to identify populations, communities, 
market segments, or purposes that the 

94
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 3: FHLBANK SYSTEM AT 100 INITIATIVE – APPROACH
FHLBanks may be uniquely positioned to support and describe how the FHLBank System 
can best support affordable housing and increase supply, expand community and economic 
development, and address climate risk.
Engagement with Peer Regulators 
FHFA works cooperatively with the regulators of the FHLBank members, and periodically 
met with peer regulators while preparing this report to invite insights and feedback.  FHFA 
maintains information sharing agreements with all federal banking agencies, which allows for 
the communication of confidential supervisory information when necessary.  Further supporting 
regulatory cooperation, the FHFA Director is a member of the Financial Stability Oversight 
Council, which includes the heads of several financial regulatory agencies.
Other External Stakeholder Engagements
To raise awareness of the initiative and solicit additional input from smaller organizations with 
limited resources, FHFA also participated in external conferences and meetings.  For instance, 
FHFA met with representatives from the South Dakota Native Homeownership Coalition during 
a larger conference and joined standing conference calls with other organizations, such as the 
National NeighborWorks Association.  
Photo courtesy of NeighborWorks Boise, one of the organizations that hosted a site visit as part of the FHLBank System at 100: 
Focusing on the Future initiative. Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for more information. 


95
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
Below is a summary of the feedback received 
on the FHLBank System from the nearly 800 
stakeholders who spoke at a listening session, 
participated in a roundtable discussion, or 
submitted written input.  
Summary of Feedback
The feedback FHFA received through listening 
sessions and written input can be separated in 
two categories, driven largely by organization 
type.  Most current depository and insurance 
company members, and industry groups that 
represent these members, were primarily 
focused on ongoing access to liquidity and 
conveyed the view that changes to the 
FHLBank System were not warranted.  They 
cautioned that changes could jeopardize 
the FHLBanks’ ability to provide stable and 
reliable liquidity to members—in particular, 
smaller members that have limited access to 
other sources of capital.  They also highlighted 
the FHLBank System’s flexibility to scale up 
and down and noted the record volume of 
advances in the spring of 2023 that enabled 
members to withstand uncertain market 
conditions.
Others, including non-depository CDFIs, small 
credit unions, affordable housing advocates 
and practitioners, community development 
organizations, representatives from fair 
housing organizations, and individuals who 
had previously engaged with the FHLBank 
System questioned whether the FHLBanks had 
strayed from their “public purpose” of funding 
mortgage lending and supporting affordable 
housing and community development.  
Numerous participants questioned whether 
current FHLBank activities justify the benefit 
the FHLBanks derive from their GSE status.  
While supportive of the FHLBank System, 
these stakeholders expressed the view that 
the FHLBanks should ensure that a greater 
portion of the benefit flows through to 
consumers and communities.   
FHLBank System Mission
Stakeholders did not agree on what mission 
activities are and how they are best executed. 
Current members pointed to the liquidity 
provided by the FHLBanks and current AHP 
funding as evidence of mission achievement, 
while others urged FHFA to look beyond this 
short-term liquidity support and consider the 
FHLBanks’ broader role in the housing finance 
system and the support the FHLBanks should 
provide for all aspects of their mission.  
Safety and Soundness and the FHLBank 
System’s Mission Achievement
Stakeholders agreed safety and soundness of 
the FHLBank System underpins the FHLBanks’ 
ability to fulfill their mission.  However, 
some stakeholders challenged the FHLBanks’ 
emphasis on never having taken a loss on 
an advance.  Participants suggested the risk 
posture of the FHLBanks constrains them from 
addressing member and community needs.  
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED

96
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
Regional Footprint
Many stakeholders cautioned against 
consolidation of the FHLBank System, citing 
a belief that regional districts enable the 
FHLBanks to be responsive to specific needs 
within their districts, especially those of small 
and rural communities.  Some supporters of 
the existing regional structure acknowledged 
that centralizing certain back-office activities 
(similar to how the Office of Finance 
functions) could generate efficiencies, reduce 
redundancies, and lead to cost savings without 
undermining the benefits of the regional 
structure of the FHLBank System.  
FHLBank Membership Eligibility
Most participants argued against expanding 
eligibility for FHLBank membership, 
especially to institutions that do not have 
a prudential regulator, are not subject to 
Community Reinvestment Act or other 
community service requirements, or do not 
have a strong connection to housing.  These 
participants expressed concern that expanding 
membership eligibility would jeopardize the 
safety and soundness of the entire FHLBank 
System.  However, some independent 
mortgage banks and REITs suggested that they 
should be eligible for membership due to their 
significant role in the current housing market.  
Mortgage REITs, in particular, noted that their 
purchase of agency MBS creates liquidity and 
stability in the housing finance system and 
supports the mission of the FHLBanks.  Other 
participants expressed the view that holding 
agency MBS, while important, does not on its 
own fully demonstrate mission achievement 
or provide evidence of a direct connection to 
housing. 
FHLBank Products and Services 
Participants generally agreed that FHLBank 
products, services, and programs enable 
members to engage in activities that align 
with the FHLBanks’ mission.  The participants 
highlighted the benefit of low-cost FHLBank 
advances that provide liquidity and FHLBank 
letters of credit that help attract municipal 
deposits.  Community banks and credit unions 
also expressed support for the FHLBanks’ 
mortgage acquisition programs.  
Some participants, however, encouraged the 
FHLBanks to develop more targeted products, 
including products focused on local credit 
needs and products for members offering 
loans that are not easily commoditized or 
funded through securitization.  Examples 
include small-dollar loans, loans on small 
multifamily properties, and purchase and 
renovation loans in distressed neighborhoods, 
where the value of the rehabilitated home 
may not be supported by current market 
appraisals. 

97
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
FHLBank Support for Small Multifamily Housing
During a site visit to Chicago’s Woodlawn neighborhood, FHFA staff saw firsthand the importance 
of small multifamily housing, which is a source of unsubsidized affordable rental housing in many 
communities.
197   The FHLBanks could explore how to increase support for the development, 
rehabilitation, and preservation of these small properties through the FHLBanks’ core business 
activities.  They could also explore improving the ability of members to capitalize their small 
multifamily assets.  In conjunction with their work on mission-oriented collateral, FHFA encourages 
the FHLBanks to consult with members holding small multifamily mortgages to identify what, if 
any, obstacles exist to pledging these loans as collateral.
Finally, many participants urged the FHLBanks to develop products and services to increase their 
support for organizations such as CDFIs that have an obligation to serve low-income individuals 
and communities.
198  
Roundtable Discussion: CDFIs, Community and Economic Development 
FHFA collected stakeholder feedback on access to the FHLBank System by organizations engaged 
in mission-oriented activities at a roundtable discussion in Las Vegas, Nevada with representatives 
from CDFIs.  Participants repeatedly voiced concern about the lack of understanding by the 
FHLBank System of the CDFI business model and lending practices.  They stated that this 
unfamiliarity with CDFIs translated into high collateral haircuts and FHLBank advance products 
that do not reflect their lending needs, which in turn reduced the CDFIs’ ability to address 
community needs.  Participants urged FHFA, the FHLBanks, and CDFIs to work together to figure 
out an effective paradigm, suggesting CDFI membership could reside in one or two FHLBanks that 
have more familiarity with the CDFI model, or that FHFA could create a de novo FHLBank with 
membership restricted to CDFIs.  They encouraged the FHLBanks to use empirical data to assess 
the risk of products offered by CDFIs and other mission-oriented lenders, rather than assuming 
that loan characteristics outside the FHLBanks’ usual credit box are inherently riskier.
Visit www.fhfa.gov/FHLB100 for the full summary of this and the other 18 roundtable discussions, 
as well as transcripts and recordings of the roundtables.
197  Visit www.FHFA.gov/FHLB100 for synopses of all roundtable discussions and site visits.
198  The U.S. Department of Treasury CDFI Fund designates as certified CDFIs specialized organizations that provide financial 
services in low-income communities and to people who lack access to financing.  See the CDFI Fund webpage for more on CDFI 
certification requirements, at https://www.cdfifund.gov/programs-training/certification.

98
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
FHLBank Support for Affordable Housing 
and Community Development 
Many stakeholders shared testimonials on 
the success of the FHLBanks’ affordable 
housing and community development 
programs in their communities.  They noted 
the positive impact of the FHLBanks’ support 
for community healthcare facilities, school 
districts, and art centers, and provided 
examples of small and large affordable housing 
developments that received primary funding 
and critical gap funding through the AHP .  
Others noted the value of the homeownership 
set-aside program for low- and moderate-
income homebuyers, and its role in 
strengthening the health of local communities 
and making homeownership a reality for 
potential borrowers who would not otherwise 
be able to afford a down payment.
Numerous participants called for 
Congressional action to increase the FHLBanks’ 
statutorily required AHP minimum annual 
contribution to between 20 and 30 percent 
of net earnings, while others stated that the 
current 10 percent of net earnings is sufficient.  
Those participants calling for an increase 
noted the challenging conditions affecting 
housing affordability in markets across the 
country, such as rising rents and interest rates, 
high construction costs, and limited housing 
supply, which have made the attainment of 
safe and sustainable homeownership and 
rental housing difficult for many households.  
Those who supported keeping the required 
contribution at the current level noted that 
the FHLBanks already allocate additional 
funds, including through voluntary programs, 
to address specific affordable housing and 
community needs in their districts.  However, 
participants also noted that voluntary 
programs are often oversubscribed and 
recommended the FHLBanks make funding 
available on a rolling basis and allocate 
additional resources to these programs to help 
more households.
Regulatory Burdens and Constraints
Most participants suggested easing 
regulatory burdens and constraints on the 
FHLBanks’ affordable housing and community 
development programs.  Some participants 
noted that applying for and using these 
programs requires a large commitment 
of time and effort for a relatively small 
amount of money.  They urged FHFA and the 
FHLBanks to reduce monitoring and other 
compliance requirements, particularly where 
AHP provides a small portion of total project 
funding and other funding sources have 
similar compliance guidelines.  They indicated 
smaller organizations may lack the financial 
or human resources needed to fully comply 
with application, reporting, and monitoring 
requirements.  
Participants identified a need for flexibility, 
including expanding the statutory household 
income eligibility limits, especially in high-
cost markets where current limits on eligible 
income and assistance levels may not be 

99
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
responsive or sufficient to address the range 
of housing needs.  Participants also asked for 
FHLBank funding to cover the cost of resident 
services, which provide crucial support for 
some households to thrive and maintain stable 
housing.
199  Some participants supported 
creating more voluntary programs, which the 
FHLBanks can set up quickly and use more 
flexibly to respond to evolving housing and 
economic development needs.   
Participants noted that while affordable 
housing and community development 
programs can provide targeted support, 
they cannot achieve the scale needed to 
address challenges all communities face.  
They described a need for the FHLBanks to 
support affordable housing and community 
development through their core business 
activities, such as advances and AMA, which 
are not subject to the reporting and monitoring 
requirements that apply under the AHP .  
Support for Non-Contiguous States and 
Territories 
Stakeholders outside of the contiguous 
United States—in Hawaii, Alaska, and the U.S. 
territories of Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, 
Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern 
Mariana Islands—highlighted the unique 
challenges they face, including high housing 
and construction costs exacerbated by their 
remote locations, limited skilled labor forces, 
poor infrastructure, limited access to banking 
institutions, and exposure to extreme weather. 
199  The use of AHP funds for resident services is not permissible by statute.  12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(1)-(2).
Some participants indicated that the FHLBanks 
lack familiarity with the needs of communities 
in these areas, which can limit their ability to 
provide targeted support.  Others, including 
representatives from Cooperativas in Puerto 
Rico, noted the absence of non-English 
language materials. 
Support for Underserved and Financially 
Vulnerable Communities
Participants commended some of the 
FHLBanks’ support in addressing the needs of 
underserved and financially vulnerable people 
and communities.  However, some also urged 
the FHLBanks to take additional actions, and 
emphasized that addressing the needs of 
these communities will require innovation and 
creative thinking, as well as a willingness to 
identify and build on programs that are already 
working.   
Some of the suggestions for the FHLBank 
System offered by participants include actions 
the FHLBanks could take to increase awareness 
and build relationships and trust:  
• Expanding outreach to increase
awareness of FHLBank products,
services,
and programs to support
homeownership
• Incr
easing diversity among the FHLBank
professionals that serve
underserved and financially vulnerable
communities

100
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
• Building FHLBank capacity to engage
Native American and Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander
(AANHPI) communities, to build trust
and facilitate the flow of capital to
support creation of affordable housing
• Improving transparency and public
reporting on FHLBank investments
in tribal lands, as well as Hawaiian
homelands
• Providing support for financial literacy
and financial education
• Evaluating and disclosing the results of
activities to address the needs in these
communities, and sharing best practices
and experiences across the FHLBank
System
Other suggestions would directly address 
housing and community development needs 
in underserved and financially vulnerable 
communities, including:
• Supporting financing to rehabilitate
homes in need of substantial repair,
especially where the cost of repairs may
exceed the value of the renovated home
• Supporting financing for
predevelopment costs, accessory
dwelling unit construction, and small
multifamily housing
• Developing expertise in working with
tribal governments to finance projects
on tribal land
• Providing support for rental properties
that can accommodate large or
multigenerational families
• Promoting entrepreneurship and
support for small and minority
developers
• Increasing AHP set-aside funding for
Native Americans and Indigenous
populations
Closing the Racial Homeownership Gap 
Some participants recommended that FHFA 
and the FHLBank System increase their efforts 
to close the racial homeownership gap.  
Participants mentioned the challenges faced 
by potential minority homebuyers, including 
fewer resources for a down payment, a 
lack of affordable housing supply, appraisal 
bias, historic disinvestment in minority 
communities, and language access issues for 
non-English speakers.  They recommended 
building capacity of potential project sponsors 
and emerging developers, particularly 
organizations led by and serving people of 
color.

101
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
Climate Resiliency Efforts 
Participants generally agreed that the FHLBank 
System can act as a convener to bring different 
groups together to share information, improve 
awareness of climate-related physical and 
transition risks, and discuss green and resilient 
housing and community development 
opportunities.  Participants noted some of 
the efforts on climate resiliency currently 
available at the FHLBanks, including post-
disaster forbearance options and assistance 
for communities that need to rebuild following 
an extreme weather event.  
Participants shared a variety of ideas for the 
FHLBanks to promote energy-efficient and 
disaster resilient construction and other green 
retrofits, such as using set-aside funding 
programs or providing low-cost advance 
programs or favorable collateral discounts on 
energy-resilient collateral.  
Participants emphasized the importance 
of considering lower-wealth and minority 
communities that are disproportionately 
impacted by climate-related risks and noted 
the inequity resulting from their inability 
to afford improvement and recovery cost 
burdens.  They added that FHFA, the 
FHLBanks, and FHLBank members should 
be mindful of the potential impacts of 
withdrawing from certain areas based on 
the areas’ risk profiles.  Further, participants 
called for improved disclosures of climate risk 
information, and for more information sharing 
about existing FHLBank housing and disaster 
relief program participation by region.  
Roundtable Discussion: FHLBank Support for Communities of Color and Closing the 
Racial Homeownership Gap
At a regional roundtable in Baltimore, Maryland in December 2022, participants from a cross-
section of housing finance, community development, and advocacy organizations discussed 
opportunities for the FHLBanks to play a larger role supporting communities of color and 
closing the racial homeownership gap.  Suggestions included improving language accessibility 
for AANHPI homebuyers and homeowners when sharing information; providing low interest 
acquisition, development, and construction loans to minority developers; providing additional 
funds for down payment assistance; and creating special purpose credit programs for first-
generation and economically disadvantaged homebuyers.  
Participants urged the FHLBanks to be innovative—to develop pilot programs that test 
concepts and expand on those tha
t work, while maintaining safety and soundness.   
Visit www.fhfa.gov/FHLB100 for the full summary of this and the other 18 roundtable 
discussions, as well as transcripts and recordings of the roundtables.

102
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
Goal Setting, Reporting, and Transparency 
Some participants emphasized the importance 
of accountability and transparency and 
noted the reporting the FHLBanks currently 
undertake through their Targeted Community 
Lending Plans and annual reports of their 
Affordable Housing Advisory Councils.  Some 
participants expressed the view that a public 
statement of proposed goals and a discussion 
of the FHLBanks’ actions towards mission 
achievement needed to be strengthened.  
Some supported requiring the FHLBanks to 
report how members use advances to ensure 
a connection between member borrowing 
and the FHLBanks’ mission.  However, many 
participants opposed this idea due to the 
administrative burden that would accompany 
expanded reporting.  
Some participants suggested expanding 
the reporting in the FHLBanks’ Targeted 
Community Lending Plans to increase 
awareness of the FHLBanks’ affordable 
housing and community development 
programs and achievements.  Others 
suggested that FHFA consider requiring the 
FHLBanks to prepare an affordable housing 
strategy or equitable housing finance plan that 
would describe their planned activities and 
summarize actions taken in the prior year.  
200  While HERA has been interpreted to permit FHFA, as conservator for each Enterprise and acting with powers of the 
Enterprise’s Board, to establish compensation for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae employees, FHFA cannot take that approach with 
the FHLBanks, which are not in conservatorship.
Compensation and Mission Achievement
Many participants stated that FHLBank 
executive compensation was not reflective 
of compensation for other public service-
oriented positions and expressed that the 
HERA compensation limits should be updated 
to include the FHLBanks.
200  Participants also 
asked for a stronger tie between executive 
compensation and mission achievement. 
FHLBank Leadership and Board Diversity 
Participants called for greater diversity within 
each FHLBank’s leadership team, as well as 
each FHLBank’s respective board of directors, 
to better serve and reflect their communities.  
These recommendations included greater 
diversity in the FHLBanks’ leadership across 
a range of factors, such as gender, race, 
skill, and expertise, including a commitment 
to affordable housing and economic 
development for public interest directors.  
Some participants felt that credit unions and 
other smaller members, such as CDFIs, were 
disadvantaged by the existing requirements 
for determining board representation.  

103
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES 
During March 2023, Silvergate Bank voluntarily dissolved and soon after, Silicon Valley Bank and 
Signature Bank failed.  First Republic Bank failed approximately seven weeks later.  Collectively, 
these four banks are referred to as the “failed members” in this appendix.
201   All four failed 
members encountered significant headwinds through the end of 2022 and into early 2023 as 
interest rates rose, deflating the value of certain longer-maturity assets.  
Closure/Resolution Dates for Failed Members
March 8, 2023 Silvergate Capital Corporation announces voluntary liquidation of 
Silvergate Bank.
March 10, 2023 California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation closes 
Silicon Valley Bank.
March 12, 2023 New York State Department of Financial Services closes Signature Bank.
May 1, 2023 California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation closes 
First Republic Bank, and FDIC announces sale to JPMorgan Chase.
The voluntary liquidation of Silvergate Bank and failure of Signature Bank were accelerated 
by the collapse of FTX, a cryptocurrency exchange, in November 2022.  Silvergate’s business 
strategy was intertwined with the cryptocurrency industry through its Silvergate Exchange 
Network.
202  Signature Bank, a member of the FHLBank of New York, had an associated 
cryptocurrency network, Signet.   Silicon Valley Bank experienced stress arising from its 
significant exposure to interest rate risk, reliance on uninsured deposits, and lack of a 
workable plan to access liquidity in challenging market conditions.
203  Faced with heavy deposit 
withdrawals related to weakened balance sheets, large volumes of uninsured deposits, 
and pressure exacerbated by events such as the FTX collapse, the failed members began to 
substantially increase their FHLBank advance borrowing to offset deposit flight.  
201  Silvergate Bank, Silicon Valley Bank, and First Republic Bank were members of the FHLBank of San Francisco.  Signature 
Bank was a member of the FHLBank of New York.  Although Silvergate Bank announced a voluntary self-liquidation on March 8, 
2023, it is included as a bank failure given the timing and reasons for its closure.  Further, on June 1, 2023, the Federal Reser
 ve 
Board announced a consent order (issued jointly with the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation of the State of 
California) against Silvergate Capital Corporation and Silvergate Bank to facilitate the voluntary self-liquidation.
202  Silvergate announced the discontinuation of Silvergate Exchange Network on its public website on March 3, 2023.  See: 
https://silvergate.com/uncategorized/silvergate-capital-corporation-announces-intent-to-wind-down-operations-and-
voluntarily-liquidate-silvergate-bank/#:~:text=In%20addition%2C%20Silvergate%20Bank%20made,through%20the%20wind%
20down%20process.
203  Federal Reserve Board of Governors, Review of the Federal Reserve’s Supervision and Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank, 
(Apr. 28, 2023). 

104
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
Figure 5-A displays the volume of advances outstanding to these failed members from the 
beginning of 2022 through early May 2023.204   
FIGURE 5-A: FAILED MEMBER ADVANCES OUTSTANDING
Despite supplementing their balance sheets with advances, all four members were unable to 
avoid failure.  Silvergate Bank announced its voluntary liquidation on March 8, 2023, and paid 
off all advances.  On the same day, Silicon Valley Bank announced a balance sheet restructuring 
that included the sale of certain securities and an intention to raise capital.  
The bank experienced a run by depositors on March 9, 2023, with deposit outflows exceeding 
$40 billion and an additional $100 billion in deposit outflows expected the next day.  On March 
10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank was placed into receivership, and the FDIC subsequently repaid 
Silicon Valley Bank’s $30 billion in FHLBank advances.  The Silicon Valley Bank failure raised 
concerns that the failure might lead to a wider banking crisis.  
These concerns prompted coordination among FHFA and the FHLBanks to prepare the FHLBanks 
204  The advances shown for Signature Bank after March 12 are to Signature Bridge Bank, N.A., the “bridge bank” established 
after the FDIC was appointed as receiver for Signature Bank, New York, NY .  Signature Bridge Bank, N.A. was also placed 
into receivership with the FDIC on March 19, 2023.  Advances shown for First Republic are advances that continued after its 
acquisition by JPMorgan Chase.
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of May 11, 2023


105
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
to fund a significant volume of advances in 
the coming week.  During the week beginning 
March 13, 2023, the FHLBanks funded $675.6 
billion in advances (largely in overnight 
issuance), the largest one-week volume in 
FHLBank history.  By the end of the week, the 
total overall outstanding advances grew by 
$223.3 billion.  
Figure 5-B shows that advances to the four 
failed members grew (size of circle represents 
the total advances outstanding as of the dates 
noted) as unrealized losses increased as a 
proportion of their Tier 1 capital.  Uninsured 
deposits concurrently decreased (as a 
proportion of total deposits) as depositors 
fled.  On March 12, 2023, Signature Bank’s 
state chartering authority and regulator closed 
the bank and appointed the FDIC as receiver.  
Of the $11.2 billion in outstanding advances 
at the time of Signature Bank’s failure, $4.7 
billion remained outstanding as of June 
30, 2023.  The outstanding advances were 
assumed by Signature Bridge Bank, N.A. and 
the FDIC paid off the advances in installments 
through July 20, 2023.  On May 1, 2023, the 
California Department of Financial Protection 
and Innovation closed First Republic Bank, 
which was acquired by JPMorgan Chase.  Of 
the FHLBank advances to First Republic Bank 
at the time of its acquisition, $26.4 billion 
remained outstanding as of September 29, 
2023.  
FIGURE 5-B. 2022-2023 PEAK AND 12/31/2021 ADVANCES OUTSTANDING RELATIVE TO 
12/31/22 AND 12/31/21 UNINSURED DEPOSITS AND UNREALIZED LOSSES
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of May 11, 2023, and data and analytics provided by S&P Global 
Market Intelligence


106
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
Financial Stability
While lending to the failed members, the FHLBanks also made advances to many other 
members experiencing deposit outflows, helping them withstand the market stress.  Figure 5-C 
displays the growth in advances between February 28, 2023, and March 31, 2023, by depository 
institution size and type.  From February 28, 2023, to March 31, 2023, advances to depository 
institutions grew by $190.6 billion, to $801.3 billion.
(a) The Financial Stability Board identifies Global Systemically Important Banks using methodology
designed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  See https://www.fsb.org/2022/11/fsb-publishes-2022-
g-sib-list/ for more information.
Source: Based on FHLBank data, as of March 31, 2023
5-C. ADVANCES OUTSTANDING BY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION SIZE AND TYPE


107
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
Safety and Soundness 
The FHLBanks maintained strong liquidity and 
lending capacity throughout the period of 
sector disruption.  However, FHFA supervision 
staff observed weaknesses at some FHLBanks 
related to member credit risk analyses, with 
the FHLBanks placing undue reliance on 
collateral protection in support of decisions 
to make or extend advances.  As a member’s 
creditworthiness changes, FHLBank member 
credit rating models and processes should 
absorb new information promptly to adjust 
collateral control requirements, haircuts, and 
lending maturities to mitigate risk.  However, 
the March 2023 events exposed weaknesses 
in the member credit risk management 
frameworks of some FHLBanks to anticipate 
and manage the risk of potential member 
failures.  While collateral does mitigate 
credit risk, it is not a substitute for accurate 
creditworthiness assessment and should only 
serve as security for repayment.  
FHFA’s Advances regulation prohibits the 
FHLBanks from making new advances or 
renewing outstanding advances for a term 
greater than 30 days to a member with 
negative tangible capital unless the member’s 
prudential regulator requests in writing that 
the FHLBank make such advances.
205 This 
provision was adopted to ensure that the 
FHLBanks would not inadvertently contravene 
the wishes of a primary federal regulator 
205  See 12 CFR 1266.4(b)(1), (c)(2). An FHLBank may renew outstanding advances for successive terms of up to 30 days 
each to a member without positive tangible capital but must honor any written request from the member’s regulator that the 
FHLBank not renew such advances. 12 CFR 1266.4(c)(1).
206  See 59 FR 2945, 2946 (Jan. 20, 1994).
by making advances available to a capital 
deficient member.206 In 2022, FHFA was asked 
to modify its requirements as interest rates 
were rising and unrealized losses on securities 
accounted for as available-for-sale increased 
at many members, causing tangible equity 
of those members to turn negative in some 
cases.  Members, the FHLBanks, and the 
banking industry at large expressed concern 
that members would be unable to borrow 
from their FHLBank unless FHFA waived its 
regulation.   
The extension of advances to members with 
negative tangible capital, however, could 
heighten credit risk exposure for an FHLBank 
and increase potential losses to the FDIC or 
the NCUA following the failure of a member.  
Further, the FHLBanks are not designed or 
equipped to serve as the lender of last resort.  
Ultimately, FHFA concluded that negative 
tangible capital was an initial risk indicator, 
and a primary federal regulator’s input was 
critical, as it would have deeper knowledge 
about the member’s health than the FHLBank 
could gather on its own. 
FHFA is continuing to assess the lessons 
learned from the March 2023 events and to 
ensure that the FHLBanks and their members 
are positioned to handle future crises.  These 
events also highlighted areas for additional 
focus by FHFA’s supervisory function.  For 
example, FHFA has identified areas where 

108
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
supervisory assumptions based on previous 
experience were insufficient or inaccurate 
when applied to a highly stressed, rapidly 
developing scenario.  As a result, FHFA is 
actively monitoring the FHLBanks’ lending 
activity and has provided guidance to them 
to reassess and update their member credit 
frameworks.  Additionally, FHFA has provided 
guidance to the FHLBanks to improve 
communication with members regarding the 
FHLBanks’ limitations on extending further 
credit when a member’s distress signals 
potential failure.  FHFA has also emphasized 
the importance of capturing all appropriate 
dimensions of risk when assessing member 
creditworthiness and that the FHLBanks 
should not rely primarily on collateral to 
mitigate risk in tenuous situations.  
Coordination With Other Regulators 
In general, the FHLBanks have established 
and maintained productive relationships 
with their members’ federal and state 
regulators.  Communication channels between 
the FHLBanks and their members’ primary 
federal regulators are longstanding and well 
developed.  Through regular communication, 
FHLBanks respond to questions from primary 
federal regulators about collateral types, 
valuation, and control policies; advance 
pricing policies; and member borrowing limits.  
Similarly, primary federal regulators respond 
to FHLBank questions about risk trends at 
their members.  By statute, members’ primary 
207  See 12 U.S.C. 1442(a).
federal regulators are required to make those 
members’ reports of examination available 
to the appropriate FHLBank upon request.
207  
However, the examination reports are not 
directly available to FHFA.   
The FHLBanks rely on supervisory information 
from a primary federal regulator for a general 
perspective of a member’s financial health, 
but the information may be lagged.  For 
example, FHLBanks generally obtain reports of 
examination from primary federal regulators 
only upon request, and consequently, 
FHLBanks may receive reports of examination 
long after problems are identified.  
While it is important that the FHLBanks and 
regulatory authorities share perspectives 
on credit risk management practices and 
potential systemic implications arising from 
them, the FHLBanks must also perform their 
own independent assessment of member 
creditworthiness.  Under certain exceptional 
circumstances, an FHLBank may need to 
diverge from standard lending procedures 
in consultation with FHFA and a member’s 
primary federal regulator to address broader 
risk mitigation concerns.  This is especially the 
case in situations with explicitly agreed-upon 
purposes, such as preparing for an institution’s 
failure or in keeping with systemic risk 
exceptions.  In these situations, all appropriate 
officials, including those at the primary 
federal regulators, FHFA, and the applicable 
FHLBank must agree on the course of action 

109
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
when necessary and properly document that 
agreement.
Although most communication between the 
FHLBanks and primary federal regulators 
occurs with the primary federal regulators’ 
supervision teams, lines of communication 
between the FHLBanks and other functions 
at the primary federal regulators are also 
important—for example, with the Federal 
Reserve’s discount window and FDIC’s Division 
of Resolution and Receiverships.  During 
the March 2023 events, FHFA observed 
that the FHLBanks’ funding desks did not 
have clear lines of communication to the 
Federal Reserve’s discount window.  Strong 
communication between the FHLBanks and 
Federal Reserve Banks is necessary to facilitate 
the transition of members to the Federal 
Reserve’s discount window when necessary. 
Coordination with the Federal Reserve
While the FHLBanks serve an important role 
in facilitating liquidity for their members, 
they are not lenders of last resort.  In rapidly 
deteriorating situations, a member may 
quickly reach an FHLBank’s limitation on 
extending additional credit.  Therefore, both 
the member and the FHLBank must be ready 
for the member to transition to the Federal 
Reserve discount window.  
To support their members in a transition 
from FHLBank borrowing to Federal Reserve 
discount window borrowing, an FHLBank must 
understand and test the procedures necessary 
to subordinate liens or release collateral to 
the Federal Reserve Bank.  FHFA has reiterated 
to the FHLBanks the importance of having 
necessary agreements with the Federal 
Reserve Banks in place prior to a crisis.  
Similarly, members must understand 
Federal Reserve Bank lending requirements 
and should test their borrowing lines to 
ensure they can quickly obtain funding that 
their FHLBank may be unable to provide.  
Understanding the difference between the 
Federal Reserve discount window’s primary 
credit and secondary credit lending programs, 
for example, can help a member use the most 
appropriate facility based on its financial 
condition.  FHFA is working with the FHLBanks 
to ensure they are preemptively establishing 
the necessary expectations and infrastructure 
to transition members from their FHLBank to 
the Federal Reserve discount window when 
necessary. 
The FHLBanks have already begun working 
with their members to address borrowing 
capacity at the Federal Reserve discount 
window (where applicable), and FHFA will 
continue to monitor these efforts going 
forward.  Communication between the 
members’ primary regulators, the FHLBanks, 
and FHFA can also be strengthened.
Mission 
As discussed in Appendix 2, several statutory 
and regulatory requirements pertaining to 
FHLBank membership and advances are 
intended to ensure that FHLBank lending 
promotes all aspects of the FHLBanks’ mission.  

110
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
However, FHLBank advances to Silvergate 
Bank, which maintained a tenuous connection 
to home financing (primarily through agency 
MBS) in recent years, highlight the difficulty 
of ensuring that FHLBank funding to any 
particular member is aligned with the FHLBank 
System’s housing finance and community 
development mission.  
Use of Advances
Silvergate Bank met all membership 
eligibility requirements when it became a 
member of the FHLBank of San Francisco in 
1997, and its business strategy and profile 
were consistent with that of a traditional 
banking institution until 2013.  At that time, 
Silvergate Bank began to shift its business to 
align with the cryptocurrency industry, and 
this alignment accelerated in 2017 when it 
established Silvergate Exchange Network.  
Since Silvergate Bank’s advance borrowings 
generally had maturities shorter than five 
years, those advances did not need to be 
supported by residential housing finance 
assets held on Silvergate’s balance sheet, 
as would have been required for long-term 
advances.
208   In addition, FHFA currently 
applies the requirement that an applicant 
have at least 10 percent of its total assets in 
residential mortgage loans only at the time of 
application, not as an ongoing requirement 
to retain FHLBank membership.
209   The fact 
that Silvergate Bank’s lending activities did not 
208  See 12 CFR 1266.3.
209  In 2014, FHFA issued a proposed rulemaking that would have made the 10 percent requirement ongoing, see 79 FR 
54848 (Nov. 2, 2014), but FHFA considered many comments objecting to that proposal and subsequently decided not to include 
the ongoing requirement in the final rule, see 81 FR 3246 (Jan. 20, 2016).  
bear strong resemblance to member mission 
expectations suggests these policies need to 
be revisited to improve their effectiveness. 
While Silvergate Bank’s assets and business 
model did not bear a strong connection to 
housing finance, the other failed members did 
engage in significant housing-oriented activity.  
For example, Signature Bank’s mortgage 
portfolio included loans on nearly 3,000 
apartment buildings with more than 80,000 
units, the majority of which were covered 
by the state of New York’s rent stabilization 
law.  Nearly half of Silicon Valley Bank’s assets 
were held in MBS at the close of 2022, and 
approximately two-thirds of First Republic 
Bank’s assets were in real estate loans or MBS 
during the same period.
Intra-Day Lending
During the March 2023 events, some troubled 
members misunderstood the ability of an 
FHLBank to provide advances late in a business 
day, especially in large volumes.  FHLBank 
advance capacity depends on a combination 
of the funding available on its balance sheet 
plus funding it can raise through the financial 
markets.  When financial markets close, 
an FHLBank’s ability to make advances to a 
member may be very limited.  

111
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 5: FHLBANKS AND RECENT BANK FAILURES
Lessons Learned 
FHFA identified three primary lessons highlighted as a result of the market disruption: (1) 
While collateral mitigates credit risk, it is not a substitute for an accurate creditworthiness 
assessment and should only serve as security for repayment; (2) Coordination among FHLBanks, 
the members’ primary federal regulators, and the Federal Reserve discount window is critical 
to ensure the FHLBanks are fully apprised of members’ financial standing and that all liquidity 
needs can be met during times of market stress; and (3) FHLBank funding to members should be 
provided in alignment with the FHLBank System’s mission.  Considering the events from March 
2023, this report addresses FHFA’s ongoing work to re-emphasize and strengthen FHLBank 
review of member creditworthiness and to encourage greater coordination and communication 
with their members’ primary regulators and the Federal Reserve discount window, particularly 
when there is a material decline in a member’s financial condition.  Earlier chapters of the 
report also outline FHFA’s planned actions to enhance members’ connection to the affordable 
housing and community development components of the FHLBank System’s mission, and to 
improve the fairness and consistency of treatment of different member types by harmonizing 
membership eligibility requirements and the standards by which compliance with those 
requirements is assessed. 

112
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 6: LITERATURE REVIEW OF PRIOR RESEARCH AND REVIEWS
The FHLBank System has been the subject 
of numerous academic journal articles.  The 
articles included in this review were all 
written after passage of the Federal Home 
Loan Bank System Modernization Act of 1999 
and therefore are relevant to the System 
as it exists today.  For the most part, these 
articles examine two questions.  First, does 
the structure of the System embed moral 
hazard such that the System poses a systemic 
risk to the broader financial system?  Second, 
do FHLBank advances promote more lending 
activity by System members?
Moral Hazard and Systemic Risk
Each article recognizes that the System is 
a significant contributor to liquidity in the 
broader financial system.  Further, there is 
general acknowledgment that the System has 
demonstrated the flexibility to react quickly 
and substantially in situations of market 
stress.  However, as articulated in several 
articles, such as Gissler, Narajabad, and Tarullo 
(2022), Scott and Hein (2010), and Flannery 
and Frame (2006), there are two key aspects 
of the System structure that taken together 
might create incentives for the FHLBanks to 
extend more credit than financially prudent, 
and/or to extend credit in a manner where 
substantial extensions of credit and the related 
funding are so mismatched as to represent 
a significant risk exposure, thus presenting 
a systemic risk to the broader financial 
system.  The two structural aspects of the 
System responsible for this concern are: (1) 
the market’s perceived federal guarantee of 
System debt combined with a modest explicit 
line of credit with Treasury, which in effect 
lowers the cost to the System of issuing debt, 
and (2) the super lien protection afforded the 
FHLBanks, which significantly lessens the risk 
to the FHLBanks of extending secured lending 
to their members.   
Furthermore, Gissler, Narajabad, and Tarullo 
(2022) point to other aspects of the System’s 
structure that contribute to potentially 
misplaced incentives, including that: (1) the 
FHLBanks are privately owned cooperatives 
that have incentives to pursue profitable 
opportunities, (2) FHLBank debt is treated 
as government debt and so has a privileged 
status in commercial bank and credit union 
portfolios, (3) the FHLBanks do not pay federal 
or state/local taxes, (4) interest on FHLBank 
debt is exempt from state/local taxes, and 
(5) as argued by Flannery and Frame (2006), 
there is no claimant positioned to discipline 
the FHLBanks except the regulator.  Taken 
together, these facts are generally referred to 
as a moral hazard problem presented by the 
System.  
There are two lines of research that explore 
the moral hazard problem.  The first looks at 
whether there is evidence that the FHLBanks 
are in fact extending credit imprudently 
APPENDIX 6: LITERATURE REVIEW OF PRIOR RESEARCH 
AND REVIEWS

113
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 6: LITERATURE REVIEW OF PRIOR RESEARCH AND REVIEWS
such that member institutions are subject to 
greater financial risks.  The second looks at 
whether there are regulatory or other checks 
on the moral hazard problem.
Two articles, Davidson and Simpson (2016) 
and Stojanovic, Vaughan, and Yeager (2008), 
explore empirically the relationship between 
the extension of advances and member 
commercial bank risk, where commercial 
bank risk is comprised of credit, interest rate, 
liquidity, and leverage risks.  It is important 
to note that this line of research necessarily 
involves statistical techniques that identify 
statistically significant “associations” between 
advances and commercial bank risk but does 
not assume or identify causality.  Davidson 
and Simpson (2016) find that if commercial 
bank default risk (which is a 1,0 dummy 
variable where 1 indicates a bank will default 
in the next calendar year) is low (value of 
zero), then there is no relationship between 
extending advances and commercial bank risk.  
Alternatively, if commercial bank default risk 
is high (value of 1), then there is a positive 
association between advances and commercial 
bank risk, suggesting that commercial banks 
heading for default obtain advances to 
invest in risky investments where, upon their 
eventual default, the risk will be borne by the 
FDIC’s insurance fund under the super lien.   
It is noted in Scott and Hein (2010), however, 
that FHLBanks typically tighten collateral 
requirements for those banks whose financial 
condition is observed to deteriorate, hence 
limiting the potential for such a loss.  Davidson 
and Simpson (2016) also find that the 
extension of advances is associated with lower 
bank interest-rate risk, particularly for smaller 
banks.  Stojanovic, Vaughan, and Yeager 
(2008) find that the extension of advances 
is associated with higher levels of liquidity 
and leverage risk.  However, again they find 
that interest rate risk is lessened with the 
extension of advances.  Further, they conclude 
that extending advances is not associated with 
a change in credit risk or bank failure risk.
Two articles, Cassell and Hoffmann (2011) and 
Scott and Hein (2010), written on the heels of 
the 2008 financial crisis, look at the question 
of whether FHLBank activity presented a moral 
hazard problem to the financial system, thus 
contributing to the foreclosure crisis.  Both 
point to the fact that the FHLBanks weathered 
the recession without suffering the levels of 
losses that were experienced by Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac that led FHFA to place each 
of those Enterprises into conservatorship.  
Further, both articles point to the key 
regulatory and FHLBank risk management 
policies and practices which were responsible 
for the FHLBanks’ satisfactory performance 
through the crisis.  Specifically, they identify 
the FHLBanks’ collateral policies and lending 
limits, limits on MBS investments, and self-
capitalizing structures, as the key policies 
and practices mitigating the moral hazard 
concern.  The FHLBanks did suffer some losses 
associated with the crisis, but as the authors 
argue, these regulatory policies and practices 

114
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 6: LITERATURE REVIEW OF PRIOR RESEARCH AND REVIEWS
reined in the FHLBanks’ risk taking, such that 
the losses they did suffer were more than 
covered by available retained earnings.
One additional issue raised by both Gissler, 
Narajabad, and Tarullo (2022) and Ashcroft, 
Bech, and Frame (2010) concerns the 
FHLBanks’ role in acting as a lender of last 
resort during periods of market stress.  Gissler, 
Narajabad, and Tarullo (2022) argue that 
extensions of advances during stress periods 
can potentially complicate the role of the 
Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort.  
However, despite this potential, they do 
not find that this concern has materialized.  
Ashcroft, Bech, and Frame (2010) point out 
that during the 2008 financial crisis, the 
FHLBanks were prompt in providing needed 
liquidity, before the Federal Reserve was 
able to intervene.  Both articles point to 
needed reform or coordination in the role of 
lender of last resort.  Gissler, Narajabad, and 
Tarullo (2022) also point to some pros and 
potential cons related to the fact that the 
FHLBanks have been active in various money 
markets, and through advances, in assisting 
commercial banks in particular to navigate 
changes to regulatory liquidity requirements 
and other regulatory changes that have been 
implemented since 2017.  
Advances and Lending Activity
Several articles focused on assessing the 
impact of advances on lending to specific 
sectors and lending in general.  Zhang (2020) 
finds that access to advances leads to lower 
mortgage rates, and consequently higher 
levels of mortgage lending.  Davidson and 
Simpson (Spring 2016) model the relationship 
between advances and small business lending, 
and find the relationship is generally positive.  
Frame, Hancock, and Passmore (2007) 
model bank portfolio responses to access to 
advances and find that advances are used as 
a general source of liquidity and generally 
dampen the sensitivity of mortgage lending to 
macroeconomic shocks.  Along the lines of the 
moral hazard argument, Hall (2005) finds that 
advances are associated with banks that have 
higher percentages of loans to assets, and 
lower levels of capital, where both indicators 
are in the direction of riskier institutions.

115
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 6: LITERATURE REVIEW OF PRIOR RESEARCH AND REVIEWS
Ashcroft, A., Bech, M.L., Frame, W.S., 2010, 
“The Federal Home Loan Bank System: The 
Lender of Next-to-Last Resort?,” Journal of 
Money, Credit, and Banking, Vol. 42, No. 4, 
June 2010.
Cassell, M.K., Hoffmann, S.M., 2011, “Not 
All Housing GSEs Are Alike: An Analysis of 
the Federal Home Loan Bank System and the 
Foreclosure Crisis,” Journal of Applied Finance, 
No. 1, 2011.
Davidson, T., Simpson, W.G., 2016, “Federal 
Home Loan Bank Advances and Bank Risk,” 
Journal of Economics and Finance, Vol. 40, 
137-156, 2016.
Davidson, T., Simpson, W.G., Spring 2016, 
“Federal Home Loan Bank Advances and 
Small Business Lending,” The Journal of 
Entrepreneurial Finance, Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring 
2016.
Flannery, M.J., Frame, W.S., 2006, “The 
Federal Home Loan Bank System: The “Other” 
Housing GSE,” Economic Review, Federal Bank 
of Atlanta, Third Quarter 2006.
Frame, W.S., D. Hancock, W. Passmore, 2007, 
“Federal Home Loan Bank Advances and 
Commercial Bank Portfolio Composition,” 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Working 
Paper 2007-17, Working Paper Series.
Gissler, S., Narajabad, B., Tarullo, D.K., 2022, 
“Federal Home Loan Banks and Financial 
Stability,” Harvard Public Law Working Paper, 
No. 22-20, July 2022.
Hall, J.R., 2005, “Blessing Or Curse? 
Community Banks’ Use of Federal Home 
Loan Bank Advances,” The Journal of Applied 
Business Research, Vol. 21, No. 3, Summer 
2005.
Scott, J.A., Hein, S.E., 2010, “The Federal 
Home Loan Banks: The GSE that Avoided 
Conservatorship,” SSRN Electronic Journal, 
DOI: 10.2139/ssm.1175366.
Stojanovic, D., Vaughan, M.D., Yeager, 
T.J., 2008, “Do Federal Home Loan Bank 
Membership and Advances Increase Bank Risk-
Taking?,” Journal of Banking & Finance, Vol. 
32, No. 5, 2008.
Zhang, D., 2020, “Government-Sponsored 
Wholesale Funding and the Industrial 
Organization of Bank Lending,” Wisconsin 
School of Business, working paper (under 
review for publication).
Works Cited

116
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Figure 1. FHLBank System Map
Figure 1 is a map showing the states and U.S. territories in each FHLBank district.
District States and U.S. Territories
Atlanta Alabama, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, 
South Carolina, Virginia
Boston Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont
Chicago Illinois, Wisconsin
Cincinnati Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee 
Dallas Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Texas
Des Moines Alaska, American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, 
Montana, North Dakota, Northern Mariana Islands, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, 
Washington, Wyoming
Indianapolis Indiana, Michigan
New York New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands
Pittsburgh Delaware, Pennsylvania, West Virginia
San Francisco Arizona, California, Nevada
Topeka Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma
Figure 2. FHLBank Assets and Operational Expenses 
Figure 2 shows trends in FHLBank assets and operational expenses from 2001 to 2023.  Figure 2 
is based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023.  Dollar amounts are in billions, and are par value 
unless otherwise specified.
Advances
Acquired 
Member 
Assets
MBS Non-MBS 
Investments
Other 
Assets Total Assets Operational
Expenses
Q1 2001 $450.38 $16.50 $84.33 $119.08 $6.40  $676.69 $0.09
Q2 2001 $450.25 $19.61 $84.99 $105.88 $5.92  $666.65 $0.09
Q3 2001 $466.58 $22.64 $85.38 $112.53 $6.84  $693.97 $0.09
Q4 2001 $472.54 $27.64 $86.73 $106.66 $5.56  $699.13 $0.10
Q1 2002 $461.86 $31.62 $88.79 $117.54 $5.47  $705.28 $0.09
Q2 2002 $470.22 $38.28 $93.06 $116.57 $6.93  $725.05 $0.09
Q3 2002 $490.47 $47.02 $95.50 $121.91 $7.25  $762.16 $0.10
Q4 2002 $489.34 $60.46 $96.39 $112.01 $6.30  $764.49 $0.11
Q1 2003 $494.89 $74.55 $99.04 $107.65 $5.75  $781.89 $0.10
Q2 2003 $506.07 $90.22 $97.79 $111.58 $5.79  $811.45 $0.11

117
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Advances
Acquired 
Member 
Assets
MBS Non-MBS 
Investments
Other 
Assets Total Assets Operational 
Expenses
Q3 2003 $505.67 $107.92 $94.14 $96.92 $6.18  $810.83 $0.11
Q4 2003 $514.04 $113.44 $97.87 $96.52 $5.00  $826.86 $0.13
Q1 2004 $530.75 $115.32 $102.26 $109.75 $4.89  $862.97 $0.12
Q2 2004 $563.93 $115.90 $107.16 $110.02 $4.41  $901.42 $0.13
Q3 2004 $562.43 $114.66 $111.45 $126.05 $4.30  $918.88 $0.13
Q4 2004 $581.22 $113.92 $113.10 $121.01 $4.47  $933.71 $0.16
Q1 2005 $580.13 $113.66 $114.37 $124.18 $4.67  $937.02 $0.15
Q2 2005 $615.80 $111.38 $116.79 $128.95 $4.73  $977.67 $0.16
Q3 2005 $615.35 $107.19 $117.23 $143.28 $4.87  $987.92 $0.15
Q4 2005 $619.86 $105.24 $122.33 $150.14 $5.55  $1,003.12 $0.19
Q1 2006 $614.65 $103.53 $124.37 $154.86 $6.22  $1,003.65 $0.16
Q2 2006 $638.17 $101.62 $127.77 $150.25 $6.60  $1,024.40 $0.17
Q3 2006 $644.16 $99.69 $129.91 $145.39 $6.26  $1,025.41 $0.16
Q4 2006 $640.68 $97.98 $130.23 $145.02 $6.06  $1,019.97 $0.18
Q1 2007 $624.42 $96.32 $127.84 $167.90 $5.70  $1,022.18 $0.17
Q2 2007 $640.04
$94.38 $128.26 $170.21 $6.00  $1,038.89 $0.17
Q3 2007 $824.00 $92.97 $136.37 $169.03 $7.11  $1,229.49 $0.17
Q4 2007 $875.06 $91.61 $143.51 $157.91 $7.80  $1,275.89 $0.20
Q1 2008 $913.10 $90.79 $157.55 $155.13 $7.31  $1,323.89 $0.18
Q2 2008 $913.90 $89.13 $168.72 $166.64 $6.55  $1,344.93 $0.18
Q3 2008 $1,011.69 $87.92 $173.14 $150.07 $6.57  $1,429.39 $0.18
Q4 2008 $928.64 $87.36 $169.17 $158.18 $6.33  $1,349.68 $0.19
Q1 2009 $817.41 $85.03 $157.54 $167.41 $5.31  $1,232.70 $0.19
Q2 2009 $738.81 $77.75 $152.84 $174.23 $4.71  $1,148.36 $0.19
Q3 2009 $677.88 $74.18 $151.93 $153.85 $4.31  $1,062.14 $0.21
Q4 2009 $631.16 $71.44 $152.03 $157.01 $4.31  $1,015.95 $0.22
Q1 2010 $572.04 $68.79 $155.97 $163.66 $5.67  $966.13 $0.19
Q2 2010 $540.32 $66.80 $150.72 $175.46 $4.05  $937.34 $0.20
Q3 2010 $499.62 $64.30 $150.75 $185.34 $3.91  $903.92 $0.21
Q4 2010 $478.59 $61.19 $146.88 $187.58 $4.07  $878.32 $0.26
Q1 2011 $445.09 $58.43 $145.75 $195.88 $3.80  $848.95 $0.23
Q2 2011 $428.46 $55.86 $145.06 $175.26 $4.79  $809.43 $0.20
Q3 2011 $415.38 $55.17 $144.51 $160.20 $3.22  $778.48 $0.20
Q4 2011 $418.16 $53.37 $140.16 $151.54 $3.13  $766.35 $0.22
Q1 2012 $393.93 $52.60 $141.10 $147.14 $3.21  $737.99 $0.21
Q2 2012 $418.37 $51.71 $142.11 $144.68 $2.89  $759.76 $0.21
Q3 2012 $412.26 $50.67 $140.71 $142.43 $2.90  $748.98 $0.20
Q4 2012 $425.75 $49.41 $138.52 $146.07 $2.91  $762.67 $0.22

118
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Advances
Acquired 
Member 
Assets
MBS Non-MBS 
Investments
Other 
Assets Total Assets Operational 
Expenses
Q1 2013 $418.30 $47.94 $137.14 $132.74 $2.83  $738.95 $0.20
Q2 2013 $458.46 $46.61 $137.25 $130.49 $2.40  $775.22 $0.21
Q3 2013 $465.11 $45.15 $139.46 $137.29 $2.42  $789.43 $0.22
Q4 2013 $498.60 $44.42 $140.31 $148.65 $2.54  $834.52 $0.26
Q1 2014 $484.44 $43.64 $139.86 $150.42 $2.51  $820.87 $0.22
Q2 2014 $536.63 $43.29 $139.41 $144.38 $2.58  $866.30 $0.23
Q3 2014 $544.57 $43.32 $138.83 $154.24 $2.38  $883.34 $0.23
Q4 2014 $570.73 $43.53 $139.18 $157.75 $2.43  $913.61 $0.25
Q1 2015 $542.19 $44.21 $137.33 $153.93 $2.53  $880.20 $0.23
Q2 2015 $592.38 $44.78 $136.10 $141.52 $2.56  $917.35 $0.30
Q3 2015 $591.46 $44.85 $134.92 $146.00 $2.70  $919.93 $0.23
Q4 2015 $634.02 $44.56 $133.68 $154.57 $2.70  $969.53 $0.28
Q1 2016 $618.14 $44.77 $135.75 $159.84 $3.19  $961.68 $0.24
Q2 2016 $689.79 $45.68 $138.44 $153.78 $3.21  $1,030.90 $0.24
Q3 2016 $688.60 $47.05 $140.49 $156.74 $3.48  $1,036.35 $0.25
Q4 2016 $705.23
$48.48 $138.65 $162.37 $3.57  $1,058.29 $0.28
Q1 2017 $660.74 $48.97 $139.61 $173.54 $3.40  $1,026.26 $0.26
Q2 2017 $706.85 $50.54 $139.68 $180.93 $3.85  $1,081.85 $0.25
Q3 2017 $719.39 $52.21 $140.18 $182.47 $3.64  $1,097.89 $0.27
Q4 2017 $731.54 $53.83 $141.30 $173.87 $3.66  $1,104.19 $0.28
Q1 2018 $697.07 $54.90 $143.78 $188.43 $3.81  $1,087.98 $0.27
Q2 2018 $734.46 $57.21 $142.36 $192.06 $4.28  $1,130.36 $0.27
Q3 2018 $706.01 $60.08 $142.57 $176.60 $4.13  $1,089.38 $0.29
Q4 2018 $728.77 $62.53 $142.99 $165.18 $4.27  $1,103.74 $0.31
Q1 2019 $671.38 $64.08 $144.05 $198.01 $5.06  $1,082.58 $0.29
Q2 2019 $689.38 $66.55 $145.41 $215.98 $5.21  $1,122.53 $0.30
Q3 2019 $658.76 $69.42 $145.34 $207.27 $5.23  $1,086.01 $0.30
Q4 2019 $641.52 $72.49 $145.61 $234.45 $5.16  $1,099.24 $0.34
Q1 2020 $806.94 $74.56 $143.76 $227.35 $6.62  $1,259.24 $0.33
Q2 2020 $557.55 $72.91 $143.16 $213.80 $5.04  $992.47 $0.32
Q3 2020 $479.02 $67.92 $138.49 $204.29 $4.75  $894.46 $0.30
Q4 2020 $422.64 $62.84 $131.81 $199.29 $4.29  $820.87 $0.39
Q1 2021 $399.07 $59.41 $125.26 $182.54 $4.46  $770.75 $0.30
Q2 2021 $370.35 $56.54 $124.25 $182.92 $4.23  $738.30 $0.30
Q3 2021 $350.04 $56.10 $121.73 $179.88 $4.46  $712.21 $0.29
Q4 2021 $351.28 $55.50 $120.88 $191.24 $4.47  $723.36 $0.33
Q1 2022 $374.57 $55.48 $119.09 $207.68 $5.49  $762.31 $0.30
Q2 2022 $518.88 $55.75 $121.55 $246.13 $5.21  $947.53 $0.30
Q3 2022 $655.03 $56.01 $128.89 $251.27 $6.16  $1,097.36 $0.31

119
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Advances
Acquired 
Member 
Assets
MBS Non-MBS 
Investments
Other 
Assets Total Assets Operational 
Expenses
Q4 2022 $819.12 $56.05 $137.60 $226.73 $7.86  $1,247.36 $0.34
Q1 2023 $1,044.61 $56.23 $152.35 $303.69 $9.15  $1,566.04 $0.34
Q2 2023 $882.06 $57.61 $161.58 $310.81 $10.23  $1,422.28 $0.34
Figure 3. FHLBank Members by Member Type
Figure 3 shows the distribution of FHLBank members by member type.  Figure 3 is based on 
FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023.  As of June 30, 2023 there were 6,487 members.
Member Type Number of 
Members
Share of 
Members
Commercial Banks 3,678 56.7%
Thrifts 579 8.9%
Insurance Companies 570 8.8%
Credit Unions 1,590 24.5%
CDFIs 70 1.1%
Figure 4. Collateral Types Pledged by FHLBank Members
Figure 4 shows the types and amounts of collateral pledged by FHLBank members.  Figure 4 is 
based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023.  Dollar amounts are in billions.
Collateral Category Dollars (billions)
Single-family (SF) 1st Lien $2,024.5
Held-for-Sale Loans $15.8
HELOCS and SF 2nd lien $178.8
Commercial Real Estate $836.8
Multifamily $397.0
Community Financial Institution $48.1
Other Loans $175.8
Securities $598.2

120
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Year Contribution amount 
($ millions)
1990 $78.0
1991 $59.0
1992 $50.0
1993 $50.0
1994 $75.0
1995 $100.0
1996 $104.1
1997 $119.0
1998 $136.0
1999 $169.0
2000 $199.0
2001 $246.0
2002 $219.0
2003 $167.0
2004 $217.0
2005 $226.0
2006 $282.0
Year Contribution amount 
($ millions)
2007 $293.0
2008 $319.0
2009 $188.0
2010 $258.0
2011 $228.0
2012 $189.0
2013 $296.0
2014 $293.0
2015 $269.1
2016 $331.5
2017 $391.7
2018 $384.3
2019 $404.1
2020 $362.5
2021 $314.7
2022 $200.5
Figure 5. FHLBank Assets ($ billions) 
Figure 5 shows the distribution of FHLBank assets by type.  Figure 5 is based on FHLBank data, 
as of June 30, 2023.  Dollar amounts are in billions.
Type Amount of Assets Share of assets
Advances $882.1 62.0%
AMA $57.6 4.1%
MBS $161.6 11.4%
Non-MBS Investments $310.8 21.9%
Other Assets $10.2 0.7%
Figure 7. FHLBanks’ AHP Statutory Funding Contributions (1990-2022)
Figure 7 shows the trend in FHLBank Affordable Housing Program statutory funding 
contributions from 1990 to 2022.  Figure 7 is based on FHLBank data, as of December 31, 2022.  
The amount of funds awarded annually may include funding adjustments from prior years or 
funds accelerated from future years. In these circumstances, an FHLBank’s amount of awarded 
funds may differ from the statutorily required contribution of funds.    

121
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Figure 8. Nonbank Origination Share
Figure 8 shows trends in the share of nonbank mortgage loan originations from 2013 to 
September 2023, for all loans, loans acquired by Fannie Mae, loans acquired by Freddie Mac, 
and loans acquired by Ginnie Mae.  The source is eMBS data and the Urban Institute.
Date All Fannie 
Mae
Freddie 
Mac
Ginnie 
Mae
Jan-13 33.0% 37.5% 21.6% 36.4%
Feb-13 29.9% 33.0% 20.6% 34.7%
Mar-13 29.2% 33.6% 19.0% 36.6%
Apr-13 30.5% 32.9% 22.4% 36.2%
May-13 31.7% 32.6% 26.1% 36.3%
Jun-13 32.7% 36.5% 25.3% 35.5%
Jul-13 34.3% 38.1% 27.1% 34.5%
Aug-13 35.5% 39.7% 28.1% 35.0%
Sep-13 34.6% 37.2% 28.5% 35.6%
Oct-13 39.0% 42.6% 30.9% 39.2%
Nov-13 37.2% 40.7% 28.5% 39.6%
Dec-13 42.8% 47.2% 32.4% 46.7%
Jan-14 46.7% 52.7% 39.3% 46.0%
Feb-14 42.3% 48.7% 31.3% 43.7%
Mar-14 48.4% 52.1% 40.0% 50.5%
Apr-14 48.1% 50.3% 37.6% 54.2%
May-14 50.0% 53.5% 41.8% 52.7%
Jun-14 47.6% 51.9% 37.4% 51.3%
Jul-14 51.6% 53.8% 42.3% 56.5%
Aug-14 48.4% 52.1% 37.5% 54.9%
Sep-14 44.8% 43.2% 37.7% 54.8%
Oct-14 51.2% 54.4% 41.2% 56.2%
Nov-14 46.0% 40.9% 39.8% 58.3%
Dec-14 53.6% 52.9% 46.6% 61.1%
Jan-15 52.3% 50.8% 41.2% 64.3%
Feb-15 46.5% 50.2% 34.5% 57.4%
Mar-15 56.6% 58.0% 45.5% 64.5%
Apr-15 55.2% 53.7% 44.1% 66.6%
May-15 53.5% 51.0% 42.7% 65.8%
Jun-15 52.3% 49.6% 41.1% 65.7%
Jul-15 51.7% 53.0% 35.7% 64.6%
Aug-15 54.6% 53.1% 42.4% 64.2%

122
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date All Fannie 
Mae
Freddie 
Mac
Ginnie 
Mae
Sep-15 55.5% 55.2% 42.8% 65.8%
Oct-15 58.4% 56.7% 48.7% 67.4%
Nov-15 56.4% 51.4% 45.5% 68.5%
Dec-15 57.9% 54.1% 49.4% 69.8%
Jan-16 59.5% 53.2% 50.5% 73.0%
Feb-16 58.8% 53.4% 50.7% 70.2%
Mar-16 56.9% 53.3% 46.5% 70.1%
Apr-16 61.0% 56.8% 51.8% 72.2%
May-16 58.7% 54.2% 49.7% 70.6%
Jun-16 60.4% 54.1% 51.5% 73.6%
Jul-16 58.8% 52.5% 50.3% 72.6%
Aug-16 60.4% 56.4% 49.5% 74.7%
Sep-16 58.7% 52.9% 48.6% 74.8%
Oct-16 59.1% 53.3% 46.6% 77.2%
Nov-16 56.3% 45.5% 46.3% 76.6%
Dec-16 58.9% 52.1% 50.7% 77.1%
Jan-17 57.2% 49.5% 46.1% 77.5%
Feb-17 54.1% 46.1% 42.5% 73.5%
Mar-17 58.5% 50.4% 46.9% 78.0%
Apr-17 60.8% 53.1% 50.4% 75.7%
May-17 60.8% 53.8% 49.0% 76.6%
Jun-17 61.1% 51.5% 53.3% 77.3%
Jul-17 59.5% 52.4% 48.8% 75.5%
Aug-17 61.2% 52.9% 53.9% 75.9%
Sep-17 60.1% 51.9% 51.0% 76.3%
Oct-17 62.0% 54.8% 53.5% 78.3%
Nov-17 62.3% 54.2% 55.0% 79.7%
Dec-17 57.3% 49.6% 44.5% 80.2%
Jan-18 63.1% 53.5% 54.1% 81.3%
Feb-18 58.9% 49.6% 52.3% 76.4%
Mar-18 64.3% 56.1% 56.4% 81.1%
Apr-18 64.2% 54.3% 58.1% 79.9%
May-18 63.9% 55.0% 59.1% 79.2%
Jun-18 63.6% 55.0% 58.0% 78.7%
Jul-18 63.2% 54.9% 58.1% 77.3%
Aug-18 61.7% 54.1% 54.3% 78.3%
Sep-18 63.8% 56.7% 58.1% 78.0%

123
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date All Fannie 
Mae
Freddie 
Mac
Ginnie 
Mae
Oct-18 63.1% 56.9% 53.5% 79.4%
Nov-18 59.3% 53.2% 46.1% 79.8%
Dec-18 64.9% 56.0% 57.0% 82.8%
Jan-19 66.0% 58.9% 55.3% 82.5%
Feb-19 62.7% 54.7% 53.7% 81.1%
Mar-19 62.2% 61.1% 43.5% 84.8%
Apr-19 65.7% 61.4% 50.6% 85.7%
May-19 61.9% 54.0% 47.0% 85.5%
Jun-19 66.4% 59.5% 52.6% 85.3%
Jul-19 67.2% 61.5% 54.5% 84.8%
Aug-19 58.7% 53.3% 41.8% 84.0%
Sep-19 65.6% 57.8% 54.6% 85.7%
Oct-19 70.8% 64.7% 62.6% 84.6%
Nov-19 69.3% 61.5% 59.6% 88.8%
Dec-19 66.4% 62.1% 48.8% 90.2%
Jan-20 66.3% 61.4% 50.8% 86.8%
Feb-20 66.2% 61.0% 46.9% 87.9%
Mar-20 69.0% 65.1% 53.3% 86.2%
Apr-20 70.0% 66.3% 62.0% 87.0%
May-20 69.3% 65.8% 61.9% 86.2%
Jun-20 72.5% 69.8% 65.6% 88.1%
Jul-20 70.2% 66.6% 62.9% 90.3%
Aug-20 68.8% 63.7% 61.1% 91.4%
Sep-20 75.5% 70.6% 70.4% 91.7%
Oct-20 74.5% 70.0% 70.0% 91.8%
Nov-20 73.1% 69.0% 67.9% 92.2%
Dec-20 79.1% 73.8% 76.9% 92.7%
Jan-21 77.1% 72.1% 73.0% 93.3%
Feb-21 77.2% 73.2% 72.4% 92.7%
Mar-21 77.1% 73.2% 72.3% 93.6%
Apr-21 75.3% 70.6% 70.9% 92.5%
May-21 73.8% 69.9% 67.3% 91.7%
Jun-21 78.0% 72.3% 75.9% 91.9%
Jul-21 77.1% 73.7% 71.1% 91.1%
Aug-21 74.9% 72.9% 68.4% 90.8%
Sep-21 76.7% 73.3% 72.0% 90.8%
Oct-21 75.8% 72.6% 70.4% 91.8%

124
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date All Fannie 
Mae
Freddie 
Mac
Ginnie 
Mae
Nov-21 76.3% 73.3% 69.3% 92.9%
Dec-21 75.1% 70.0% 70.2% 92.6%
Jan-22 75.6% 72.2% 69.7% 92.5%
Feb-22 75.1% 70.7% 68.9% 92.7%
Mar-22 75.5% 71.5% 69.7% 93.4%
Apr-22 79.2% 74.3% 75.4% 92.7%
May-22 77.0% 71.2% 70.4% 92.8%
Jun-22 73.5% 68.0% 64.4% 91.7%
Jul-22 78.2% 73.8% 70.5% 92.2%
Aug-22 73.8% 69.9% 64.2% 90.8%
Sep-22 76.8% 71.7% 68.7% 90.9%
Oct-22 76.7% 70.9% 64.9% 91.8%
Nov-22 78.6% 69.7% 72.2% 90.8%
Dec-22 77.4% 70.5% 71.2% 90.2%
Jan-23 81.3% 75.4% 76.4% 91.4%
Feb-23 77.1% 71.7% 68.7% 89.5%
Mar-23 82.7% 77.9% 77.3% 92.5%
Apr-23 81.7% 74.0% 76.2% 93.0%
May-23 80.3% 73.7% 74.4% 92.8%
Jun-23 79.4% 73.9% 70.8% 93.1%
Jul-23 81.4% 76.6% 74.4% 91.6%
Aug-23 80.9% 77.7% 71.0% 91.7%
Sep-23 78.2% 74.7% 66.9% 92.2%
Figure 9. FHLBank Membership (1989-2023Q2)
Figure 9 shows changes in the number of FHLBank members by member type, from 1989 to Q2 
2023.  Figure 9 is based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023.  
Year Commercial 
Bank
Credit 
Union
Insurance 
Company Thrift CDFI Total
1989 74 1 4 2,872 0 2,951 
1990 107 4 3 2,524 0 2,638 
1991 463 12 4 2,244 0 2,723 
1992 1,128 27 9 2,095 0 3,259 
1993 1,863 58 12 1,980 0 3,913 
1994 2,541 87 14 1,868 0 4,510 
1995 2,960 135 17 1,770 0 4,882 

125
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Year Commercial 
Bank
Credit 
Union
Insurance 
Company Thrift CDFI Total
1996 3,320 168 17 1,679 0 5,184 
1997 3,721 203 25 1,557 0 5,506 
1998 4,177 265 24 1,469 0 5,935 
1999 5,317 405 39 1,616 0 7,377 
2000 5,668 497 52 1,545 0 7,762 
2001 5,767 574 57 1,483 0 7,881 
2002 5,848 658 75 1,424 0 8,005 
2003 5,909 727 81 1,374 0 8,091 
2004 5,910 799 92 1,311 0 8,112 
2005 5,917 846 111 1,268 0 8,142 
2006 5,864 875 134 1,240 0 8,113 
2007 5,796 906 151 1,205 0 8,058 
2008 5,831 951 184 1,180 0 8,146 
2009 5,703 1,004 206 1,143 0 8,056 
2010 5,494 1,028 228 1,091 0 7,841 
2011 5,347 1,123 248 1,042 8 7,768 
2012 5,202 1,178 262 974 13 7,629 
2013 5,048 1,216 284 933 18 7,499 
2014 4,884 1,271 303 871 30 7,359 
2015 4,690 1,319 372 817 41 7,239 
2016 4,526 1,389 398 772 45 7,130 
2017 4,370 1,435 406 729 48 6,988 
2018 4,191 1,490 437 686 59 6,863 
2019 4,021 1,526 472 659 60 6,738 
2020 3,915 1,559 530 629 64 6,697 
2021 3,797 1,560 542 609 68 6,576 
2022 3,712 1,569 564 583 70 6,498 
Q1 2023 3,688 1,579 563 581 70 6,481 
Q2 2023 3,678 1,590 570 579 70 6,487 

126
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Year
Period-end 
Advances  
($ billions)
1964 5.32 
1965 6.00 
1966 6.93 
1967 4.39 
1968 5.26 
1969 9.29 
1970 10.61 
1971 7.94 
1972 7.98 
1973 15.15 
1974 21.78 
1975 17.84 
1976 15.86 
1977 20.17 
1978 32.67 
1979 41.84 
1980 48.96 
1981 65.20 
1982 66.00 
1983 58.98 
1984 74.62 
Year
Period-end 
Advances  
($ billions)
1985 88.83 
1986 108.64 
1987 133.06 
1988 152.78 
1989 141.80 
1990 117.10 
1991 79.06 
1992 79.88 
1993 103.13 
1994 125.89 
1995 132.26 
1996 160.69 
1997 202.26 
1998 288.19 
1999 395.75 
2000 437.86 
2001 472.54 
2002 489.34 
2003 514.04 
2004 581.22 
2005 619.86 
Year
Period-end 
Advances  
($ billions)
2006 640.68 
2007 875.06 
2008 928.64 
2009 631.16 
2010 478.59 
2011 418.16 
2012 425.75 
2013 498.60 
2014 570.73 
2015 634.02 
2016 705.23 
2017 731.54 
2018 728.77 
2019 641.52 
2020 422.64 
2021 351.28 
2022 819.12 
2023Q1 1,044.61 
2023Q2 882.06 
Figure 10. FHLBank Advances Outstanding since 1964 (book value)
Figure 10 shows changes in the book value of FHLBank advances outstanding from 1964 to 2Q 
2023.  The figure shows a peak in advances outstanding in 2008, during the Great Recession, a 
20-year low in 2021, and another peak during the 1Q 2023 market disruption.  Dollar amounts 
are in billions and are nominal dollars.  Figure 10 is based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023.  

127
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Figure 11. Failed Member Advances Outstanding 
Figure 11 shows changes in advances outstanding for four FHLBank members: First Republic Bank, 
Signature Bank, Silicon Valley Bank, and Silvergate Bank, from October 11, 2022 to May 11, 2023.  
Dollar amounts are in billions.  Figure 11 is based on FHLBank data, as of May 11, 2023.  
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
9/23/22 14.00 1.45 7.50 0.00
9/24/22 14.00 1.45 7.50 0.00
9/25/22 14.00 1.45 7.50 0.00
9/26/22 13.85 1.45 7.00 0.20
9/27/22 13.85 1.45 7.00 0.60
9/28/22 12.25 1.45 8.00 1.20
9/29/22 11.25 1.45 12.00 1.20
9/30/22 11.00 1.45 13.50 0.70
10/1/22 11.00 1.45 13.50 0.70
10/2/22 11.00 1.45 13.50 0.70
10/3/22 11.00 1.45 12.00 0.90
10/4/22 11.00 1.45 14.00 1.10
10/5/22 11.00 1.45 13.50 1.30
10/6/22 11.00 1.45 13.00 1.30
10/7/22 11.00 1.45 12.50 0.80
10/8/22 11.00 1.45 12.50 0.80
10/9/22 11.00 1.45 12.50 0.80
10/10/22 11.00 1.45 12.50 0.80
10/11/22 11.00 1.45 10.50 1.30
10/12/22 10.80 1.45 11.00 1.30
10/13/22 10.80 1.45 11.00 1.50
10/14/22 10.80 1.45 10.50 1.00
10/15/22 10.80 1.45 10.50 1.00
10/16/22 10.80 1.45 10.50 1.00
10/17/22 10.80 1.45 10.50 1.20
10/18/22 10.80 1.45 10.50 1.20
10/19/22 12.30 1.45 10.50 1.20
10/20/22 13.30 1.45 10.50 1.20
10/21/22 13.55 1.45 10.00 1.20
10/22/22 13.55 1.45 10.00 1.20
10/23/22 13.55 1.45 10.00 1.20
10/24/22 13.55 1.45 10.00 1.40

128
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
10/25/22 13.05 1.45 10.00 1.40
10/26/22 13.05 1.45 10.00 1.00
10/27/22 13.55 1.45 10.00 1.20
10/28/22 14.15 1.45 11.00 0.90
10/29/22 14.15 1.45 11.00 0.90
10/30/22 14.15 1.45 11.00 0.90
10/31/22 13.55 1.45 13.50 1.40
11/1/22 12.75 1.45 12.50 1.20
11/2/22 13.05 1.45 12.50 1.50
11/3/22 13.55 1.45 12.50 1.70
11/4/22 12.80 1.45 15.00 1.70
11/5/22 12.80 1.45 15.00 1.70
11/6/22 12.80 1.45 15.00 1.70
11/7/22 14.03 1.45 15.00 1.70
11/8/22 13.80 1.45 15.50 1.70
11/9/22 12.80 1.45 15.00 2.30
11/10/22 11.55 1.45 15.00 2.90
11/11/22 11.55 1.45 15.00 2.90
11/12/22 11.55 1.45 15.00 2.90
11/13/22 11.55 1.45 15.00 2.90
11/14/22 11.85 1.45 15.00 3.40
11/15/22 12.35 1.45 15.00 3.90
11/16/22 12.35 1.45 15.00 5.34
11/17/22 12.85 1.45 15.00 5.34
11/18/22 12.85 8.45 15.00 5.34
11/19/22 12.85 8.45 15.00 5.34
11/20/22 12.85 8.45 15.00 5.34
11/21/22 13.35 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/22/22 13.60 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/23/22 13.80 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/24/22 13.80 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/25/22 13.30 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/26/22 13.30 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/27/22 13.30 4.95 15.00 5.34
11/28/22 13.20 3.95 15.00 5.34
11/29/22 12.75 5.95 15.00 5.34
11/30/22 12.30 5.95 15.00 4.54

129
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
12/1/22 13.00 5.95 15.50 4.54
12/2/22 13.00 4.45 15.00 4.54
12/3/22 13.00 4.45 15.00 4.54
12/4/22 13.00 4.45 15.00 4.54
12/5/22 13.20 4.45 15.00 4.54
12/6/22 12.85 3.95 15.00 4.54
12/7/22 11.90 3.95 15.00 4.54
12/8/22 12.20 3.95 15.00 4.54
12/9/22 12.50 4.95 15.30 4.54
12/10/22 12.50 4.95 15.30 4.54
12/11/22 12.50 4.95 15.30 4.54
12/12/22 12.70 5.45 15.25 4.54
12/13/22 10.60 4.95 15.00 4.54
12/14/22 11.30 3.95 15.00 4.54
12/15/22 9.70 3.95 15.00 4.54
12/16/22 10.80 5.95 15.00 4.54
12/17/22 10.80 5.95 15.00 4.54
12/18/22 10.80 5.95 15.00 4.54
12/19/22 11.50 7.43 15.00 4.54
12/20/22 11.70 7.43 15.00 4.54
12/21/22 9.90 8.93 15.00 4.54
12/22/22 9.40 9.18 15.00 4.54
12/23/22 9.40 9.18 15.00 4.54
12/24/22 9.40 9.18 15.00 4.54
12/25/22 9.40 9.18 15.00 4.54
12/26/22 9.40 9.18 15.00 4.54
12/27/22 10.75 8.18 15.00 4.34
12/28/22 11.65 8.18 15.00 4.34
12/29/22 12.35 10.18 15.00 4.30
12/30/22 14.00 11.28 15.00 4.30
12/31/22 14.00 11.28 15.00 4.30
1/1/23 14.00 11.28 15.00 4.30
1/2/23 14.00 11.28 15.00 4.30
1/3/23 12.20 9.28 15.00 4.30
1/4/23 12.80 8.53 15.00 4.30
1/5/23 12.20 7.78 15.00 4.30
1/6/23 12.00 7.18 15.00 3.84

130
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
1/7/23 12.00 7.18 15.00 3.84
1/8/23 12.00 7.18 15.00 3.84
1/9/23 13.70 7.18 15.00 3.84
1/10/23 13.80 7.18 15.00 3.84
1/11/23 12.75 7.18 15.30 2.83
1/12/23 13.10 7.18 15.30 2.83
1/13/23 13.40 7.18 15.00 2.83
1/14/23 13.40 7.18 15.00 2.83
1/15/23 13.40 7.18 15.00 2.83
1/16/23 13.40 7.18 15.00 2.83
1/17/23 14.70 7.18 15.20 2.83
1/18/23 14.40 7.68 15.00 2.83
1/19/23 14.60 8.68 15.90 2.83
1/20/23 15.30 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/21/23 15.30 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/22/23 15.30 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/23/23 15.90 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/24/23 15.30 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/25/23 15.00 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/26/23 13.50 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/27/23 13.10 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/28/23 13.10 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/29/23 13.10 8.68 15.00 2.83
1/30/23 14.00 8.93 18.00 2.83
1/31/23 12.95 8.93 18.00 2.83
2/1/23 15.75 8.68 16.50 2.83
2/2/23 15.95 8.18 15.00 2.83
2/3/23 16.15 7.93 15.25 2.83
2/4/23 16.15 7.93 15.25 2.83
2/5/23 16.15 7.93 15.25 2.83
2/6/23 16.35 7.43 15.00 2.83
2/7/23 16.25 7.43 15.00 2.83
2/8/23 15.65 6.93 15.00 2.33
2/9/23 16.45 6.93 15.00 2.33
2/10/23 16.65 6.68 15.00 2.33
2/11/23 16.65 6.68 15.00 2.33
2/12/23 16.65 6.68 15.00 2.33

131
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
2/13/23 17.75 6.43 15.00 2.33
2/14/23 16.55 5.68 15.00 2.33
2/15/23 16.35 6.18 15.00 1.89
2/16/23 16.25 6.18 15.70 1.89
2/17/23 16.85 7.18 15.00 1.89
2/18/23 16.85 7.18 15.00 1.89
2/19/23 16.85 7.18 15.00 1.89
2/20/23 16.85 7.18 15.00 1.89
2/21/23 17.50 7.93 15.00 1.89
2/22/23 17.85 7.93 15.00 1.89
2/23/23 18.15 7.93 15.00 1.89
2/24/23 19.05 8.53 15.65 1.51
2/25/23 19.05 8.53 15.65 1.51
2/26/23 19.05 8.53 15.65 1.51
2/27/23 18.70 8.18 17.50 1.51
2/28/23 19.60 8.18 20.00 1.51
3/1/23 19.40 8.18 20.00 0.00
3/2/23 19.30 7.18 25.00 0.00
3/3/23 19.00 6.68 25.00 0.00
3/4/23 19.00 6.68 25.00 0.00
3/5/23 19.00 6.68 25.00 0.00
3/6/23 19.25 6.43 25.00 0.00
3/7/23 19.55 6.43 25.00 0.00
3/8/23 18.25 6.43 30.00 0.00
3/9/23 17.10 6.43 30.00 0.00
3/10/23 24.82 11.18 30.00 0.00
3/11/23 24.82 11.18 30.00 0.00
3/12/23 24.82 11.18 30.00 0.00
3/13/23 28.10 11.18 27.50 0.00
3/14/23 28.10 11.18 27.50 0.00
3/15/23 28.10 10.43 20.00 0.00
3/16/23 28.10 10.18 10.00 0.00
3/17/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/18/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/19/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/20/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/21/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00

132
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
3/22/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/23/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/24/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/25/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/26/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/27/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/28/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/29/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/30/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
3/31/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/1/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/2/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/3/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/4/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/5/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/6/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/7/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/8/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/9/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/10/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/11/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/12/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/13/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/14/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/15/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/16/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/17/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/18/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/19/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/20/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/21/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/22/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/23/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/24/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/25/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/26/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/27/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00

133
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Date First Republic 
Bank Signature Bank Silicon Valley Bank Silvergate Bank
4/28/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/29/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
4/30/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/1/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/2/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/3/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/4/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/5/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/6/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/7/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/8/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/9/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/10/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00
5/11/23 28.10 10.18 0.00 0.00

134
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Timeline of FHLBank History
1929-1939: Great Depression
1932: Federal Home Loan Bank Act creates FHLBanks and the FHLBB as regulator of the FHLBank 
System; FHLBB charters 12 regional FHLBanks 
1933: Banking Act of 1933 establishes the FDIC; Home Owners’ Loan Act directs FHLBB to create 
and oversee HOLC and authorizes FHLBB to begin chartering and regulating federal thrifts 
1934: National Housing Act creates FHA, which over time leads to the 30-year self-amortizing 
mortgage; creates FSLIC under the direction of the FHLBB, to provide deposit insurance for thrifts
1937: FHLBank System issues first consolidated obligations
1938: Fannie Mae created
1941-1945: United State engaged in World War II
1944: Servicemen’s Readjustment Act (G.I. Bill) creates the VA loan guaranty program
1946: FHLBank of Los Angeles merged with FHLBank of Portland to create FHLBank of San 
Francisco, reducing System to 11 FHLBanks
1951: FHLBank System retires federal government stock held from inception
1954: HOLC decommissioned
1963: FHLBank of San Francisco split into two Banks: FHLBank of San Francisco and FHLBank of 
Spokane (later Seattle), increasing System to 12 FHLBanks
1964: Civil Rights Act signed
1965: Department of Housing and Urban Development Act creates U.S. Department of Housing 
and Urban Development (HUD) 
1968: Fannie Mae privatized; Fair Housing Act (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968) prohibits 
discrimination in housing access on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, 
or disability; Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 creates Ginnie Mae; provides subsidies 
for low- and moderate-income housing and community redevelopment
1970: Freddie Mac created; Emergency Home Finance Act of 1970 provides $250 million to 
the FHLBB for distribution to FHLBanks for subsidizing interest rates on advances to spur home 
construction

135
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
1982: Garn St. Germain Depository Institutions Act eliminates statutory restrictions on collateral 
the FHLBanks may accept
1986-1995: Savings and Loan Crisis
1989: FSLIC dissolved; Freddie Mac privatized; FIRREA creates AHP , CIP , and CICA; creates RTC 
and RefCorp (funded by FHLBanks) to resolve troubled thrifts; establishes requirements for long-
term advances and limits advances to members that do not qualify as QTLs; commercial banks 
and credit unions eligible to become FHLBank members (if at least 10% of assets are in residential 
mortgage loans)
1992: Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 creates OFHEO as 
a division of HUD and mandates Enterprise goals for low-income and underserved community 
involvement; HCDA mandates comprehensive studies of the FHLBanks, which give rise to 
recommendations, several of which eventually lead to statutory changes
1999: Federal Home Loan Bank System Modernization Act modifies multiple Bank Act provisions 
including on the capital structure of the FHLBanks; makes membership voluntary for all 
institutions, including federal thrifts; modifies the FHLBanks’ RefCorp payment obligation to a 
percentage of earnings instead of a fixed amount; eliminates QTL provisions
2004: Finance Board issues rule requiring FHLBanks to register stock with the SEC (codified in 
statute in 2008)
2007-2008: Global Financial Crisis
2007-2010: United States Mortgage Crisis
2008: CDFIs eligible to become FHLBank members; Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac placed in 
conservatorship; HERA creates FHFA by combining FHFB and OFHEO; gives FHLBank members 
authority to elect their independent directors (formerly appointed by regulator); authorizes 
FHLBanks to merge voluntarily; establishes affordable housing goals
2010: Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) overhauls 
financial regulation; creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and eliminates OTS
2015: FHLBank of Seattle voluntarily merges into FHLBank of Des Moines, reducing System to 11 
FHLBanks; non-federally-insured credit unions eligible to become FHLBank members
2022: FHFA launches FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future initiative

136
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Quarter Dollars 
(billions)
Q1 2010 0.0
Q2 2010 0.0
Q3 2010 0.0
Q4 2010 0.0
Q1 2011 0.0
Q2 2011 0.0
Q3 2011 1.3
Q4 2011 1.2
Q1 2012 1.2
Q2 2012 1.1
Q3 2012 1.0
Q4 2012 1.0
Q1 2013 1.0
Q2 2013 1.0
Q3 2013 1.0
Q4 2013 1.0
Q1 2014 1.6
Q2 2014 1.6
Q3 2014 1.6
Q4 2014 1.6
Q1 2015 0.9
Q2 2015 1.7
Q3 2015 1.7
Q4 2015 1.8
Q1 2016 2.5
Q2 2016 2.9
Q3 2016 2.8
Q4 2016 2.9
Q1 2017 3.4
Q2 2017 3.1
Q3 2017 4.3
Quarter Dollars 
(billions)
Q4 2017 5.4
Q1 2018 6.7
Q2 2018 8.9
Q3 2018 13.6
Q4 2018 17.2
Q1 2019 9.8
Q2 2019 12.3
Q3 2019 11.0
Q4 2019 14.4
Q1 2020 15.7
Q2 2020 13.3
Q3 2020 8.3
Q4 2020 8.1
Q1 2021 6.3
Q2 2021 5.7
Q3 2021 6.1
Q4 2021 6.4
Q1 2022 6.8
Q2 2022 9.6
Q3 2022 13.0
Q4 2022 22.9
Q1 2023 25.1
Q2 2023 30.0
Figure 12. Interest Bearing Deposit Account Average Daily Outstanding Balance
Figure 12 shows trends in the interest-bearing deposit account average daily outstanding balance 
from 1Q 2010 to 2Q 2023.  Dollar amounts are in billions.  Figure 12 is based on FHLBank data, as 
of June 30, 2023.  

137
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Figure 13. Retained Earnings
Figure 13 shows changes in the FHLBanks’ retained earnings from 1Q 2001 to 2Q 2023.  
Dollar amounts are in billions.  Figure 13 is based on FHLBank data, as of June 30,  2023.  
Quarter ($ billions)
Q1 2001 .654
Q2 2001 .750
Q3 2001 .519
Q4 2001 .752
Q1 2002 .876
Q2 2002 .771
Q3 2002 .636
Q4 2002 .717
Q1 2003 .751
Q2 2003 .746
Q3 2003 .833
Q4 2003 1.173
Q1 2004 1.064
Q2 2004 1.
798
Q3 2004 1.
616
Q4 2004 1.
845
Q1 2005 2.
136
Q2 2005 1.
981
Q3 2005 2.
473
Q4 2005 2.
671
Q1 2006 2.
825
Q2 2006 2.
995
Q3 2006 3.
083
Q4 2006 3.
189
Q1 2007 3.
264
Q2 2007 3.
348
Q3 2007 3.
511
Q4 2007 3.
715
Q1 2008 3.
786
Q2 2008 3.867
Q3 2008 3
.901
Q4 2008 2.
970
Q1 2009 5.
059
Quarter ($ billions)
Q2 2009 6.022
Q3 2009 5.655
Q4 2009 6.
050
Q1 2010 6.
219
Q2 2010 6.
416
Q3 2010 6.
985
Q4 2010 7.
489
Q1 2011 7.
672
Q2 2011 7.
790
Q3 2011 8.
129
Q4 2011 8.
519
Q1 2012 9.
100
Q2 2012 9.
506
Q3 2012 9.
999
Q4 2012 10.438
Q1 2013 10.818
Q2 2013 11
.317
Q3 2013 11.642
Q4 2013 12.091
Q1 2014 12.366
Q2 2014 12.606
Q3 2014 12.951
Q4 2014 13.159
Q1 2015 13.824
Q2 2015 13.754
Q3 2015 13.927
Q4 2015 14.266
Q1 2016 14.793
Q2 2016 15.274
Q3 2016 15.819
Q4 2016 16.314
Q1 2017 16.766
Q2 2017 17.229
Quarter ($ billions)
Q3 2017 17.674
Q4 2017 18.094
Q1 2018 18.460
Q2 2018 18.912
Q3 2018 19.306
Q4 2018 19.504
Q1 2019 19.849
Q2 2019 20.017
Q3 2019 20.184
Q4 2019 20.587
Q1 2020 20.728
Q2 2020 21.207
Q3 2020 21.653
Q4 2020 21.986
Q1 2021 22.224
Q2 2021 22.380
Q3 2021 22.566
Q4 2021 22.760
Q1 2022 23.026
Q2 2022 23.375
Q3 2022 23.930
Q4 2022 24.556
Q1 2023 25.390
Q2 2023 26.426

138
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Figure 14. FHLBank System Share of Total Advances Outstanding by Original Term of 
Maturity
Figure 14 shows the shares of FHLBank advances by original term to maturity (greater than 5 years; 
greater than one year and less than or equal to 5 years; less than or equal to one year), between 
March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2023.  Figure 14 is based on FHLBank data, as of June 30, 2023.  
Date ≤ 1 year > 1 year to ≤ 5 
years > 5 years
3/31/20 42.4% 39.4% 18.2%
6/30/20 32.3% 43.8% 24.0%
9/30/20 31.7% 41.6% 26.6%
12/31/20 28.9% 41.3% 29.7%
3/31/21 29.3% 40.6% 30.1%
6/30/21 28.4% 39.7% 32.0%
9/30/21 28.0% 38.7% 33.3%
12/31/21 29.9% 37.1% 33.0%
3/31/22 36.2% 33.9% 29.9%
6/30/22 48.6% 31.8% 19.6%
9/30/22 51.7% 33.0% 15.3%
12/31/22 56.7% 30.8% 12.6%
3/31/23 56.9% 33.2% 10.0%
6/30/23 46.5% 42.1% 11.3%
Figure 16. FHLBank Dividends and AHP Assessments
Figure 16 compares FHLBank dividends paid and Affordable Housing Program assessments from 
2001 to the first half of 2023.  Dollar amounts are in millions.  Figure 16 is based on FHLBank data, as 
of June 30, 2023.  
Dividends Paid AHP 
Assessments
2001 $1,951.29 $219.13
2002 $1,541.89 $167.39
2003 $1,501.01 $217.50
2004 $1,347.57 $226.75
2005 $1,669.00 $282.99
2006 $2,069.10 $293.83
2007 $2,283.36 $319.09
2008 $1,974.40 $188.36
2009 $640.74 $258.58

139
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Dividends Paid AHP 
Assessments
2010 $585.72 $228.14
2011 $569.30 $189.35
2012 $660.44 $296.77
2013 $842.96 $293.30
2014 $1,184.13 $269.20
2015 $1,514.76 $331.50
2016 $1,517.47 $391.70
2017 $1,658.32 $384.31
2018 $2,161.22 $404.05
2019 $2,120.81 $362.46
2020 $1,553.03 $314.67
2021 $1,009.37 $200.52
2022 $1,372.16 $355.22
2023H1 $1,476.10 $374.49
Figure 2-A. FHLBank Members by Member Type
Please see Figure 3, which is identical to Figure 2-A.
Figure 2-B. Collateral Types Pledged by FHLBank Members
Please see Figure 4, which is identical to Figure 2-B.
Figure 2-C.  FHLBank Advances Outstanding Since 1964 (book value)
Please see Figure 10, which is identical to Figure 2-C.
Figure 2-D. FHLBank Membership (1989-2023Q2)
Please see Figure 9, which is identical to Figure 2-D.
Figure 3-A. Phases of the FHLBank System at 100 Initiative
Figure 3-A shows the four phases of the FHLBank System at 100 initiative:
• Phase 1: Kick-off Listening Session, September 29, 2022 to October 4, 2022
• Phase 2: Roundtable Discussions, November 2, 2022 to March 20, 2023
• Phase 3: Wrap-up Listening Session, March 22, 2023 to March 24, 2023
• Phase 4: Report Preparation and Post-Report Implementation
Figure 5-A. Failed Member Advances Outstanding
Please see Figure 11, which is identical to Figure 5-A.

140
FHLBank System at 100: Focusing on the Future
APPENDIX 7: ACCESSIBLE FIGURES
Figure 5-B. 2022-2023 Peak and 12/31/2021 Advances Outstanding Relative to 
12/31/22 and 12/31/21 Uninsured Deposits and Unrealized Losses
Figure 5-B shows the amount of advances outstanding for four FHLBank members, on December 
31, 2021 and at the point in 2022 or 2023 when the member had a peak amount of advances 
outstanding.  Dollar amounts are in billions.  Figure 5-B also shows changes in unrealized losses 
to tier 1 capital at these two points in time, for each member.  Finally, figure 5-B shows the ratio 
of uninsured deposits to total deposits at these two points in time, for each member.  Figure 5-B 
is based on FHLBank data, as of May 11, 2023, and data and analytics provided by S&P Global 
Market Intelligence.
Advances 
outstanding, 
12/31/21
Unrealized 
losses 
to tier 1 
capital, 
12/31/21
Uninsured 
deposits 
vs. total 
deposits, 
12/31/21
Advances 
outstanding, 
2022-2023 
peak
Unrealized 
losses to tier 1 
capital, 2022-
2023 peak
Uninsured 
deposits vs. 
total deposits,
2022-2023 
peak
Silvergate Bank $0 -0.9% 98.3% $5.3, as of 
11/16/22
-14.8% 59%
First Republic 
Bank
$3.7 6.9% 74.6% $28.1, as of 
3/13/23
-29.9% 68%
Signature Bank $2.6 -3.5% 92.0% $11.3, as of 
12/30/22
- 32.0% 90%
Silicon Valley 
Bank
$0 -7.7% 94.7% $30.0, as of 
3/8/23
- 104.1% 93.9%
Figure 5-C. Advances Outstanding by Depository Institution Size and Type
Figure 5-C shows advances outstanding  by different types and sizes of depository institutions, as 
of February 28, 2023 and March 31, 2023.  Dollar amounts are in billions.  Figure 5-C is based on 
FHLBank data, as of March 31, 2023.
As of 
2/28/2023
As of 
3/31/2023
Global Systemically Important Banks (a) $64.50 $78.18 
Large Domestic Banks (≥$100 billion in assets) $263.72 $359.39 
Large Regional Banks (≥$50 billion and <$100 billion in 
assets)
$65.63 $99.40 
Regional Banks (≥$1.417 billion and <$50 billion in assets) $177.01 $219.93 
Small Banks (<$1.417 billion in assets) $39.87 $44.39 
(a) The Financial Stability Board identifies Global Systemically Important Banks using methodology
designed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  See https://www.fsb.org/2022/11/fsb-
publishes-2022-g-sib-list/ for more information.