Skip to main content
 
 An official website of the United States Government

Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockLocked padlock icon) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

 
 
 Back to Home
 
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
 
 
 Stay Connected
 
 
 
 

 Federal Reserve Facebook Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Federal Reserve Instagram Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Federal Reserve YouTube Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Federal Reserve Flickr Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Federal Reserve Threads Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Federal Reserve Twitter Page
 
 

 
 
 

 Subscribe to RSS
 
 

 
 
 

 Subscribe to Email
 
 

 
 

 
 Recent Postings
 

 
 Calendar
 

 
 Publications
 

 
 Site Map
 

 
 A-Z index
 

 
 Careers
 

 
 FAQs
 

 
 Videos
 

 
 Contact
 

 
 
 
 Search
 
 
 
 Submit Search Button
 
 
 
 

 
 Advanced
 

 
 
 
 Toggle Dropdown Menu
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
 

 
 
 The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States,
 provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and
 financial system.
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Main Menu Toggle Button
 
 Sections
 
 Search Toggle Button
 
 

 
 
 
 Search
 
 
 Search Submit Button
 Submit
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Home
 

 
 Reporting Forms
 

 
 
 
 Reporting Forms

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or
 access the information through the links provided below.
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Information collections under review
 Recent Reporting Form Updates
 Application filing information
 Micro Data Reference Manual
 Savings and Loan Holding Company Reporting Forms
 
 Incorporating FASB Accounting
 Standards Codification References into Federal Reserve Report (16 KB PDF)
 
 

 

 

 
 FR 2052a 
 Complex Institution Liquidity 
Monitoring Report
 

 Form:
 
 
 Current (2.6 MB .PDF)
 

 Instructions:
 
 Included with forms
 

 
 Description: The FR 2052a report collects 
quantitative information on selected assets, 
liabilities, funding activities, and contingent 
liabilities on a consolidated basis and by 
material entity subsidiary. The FR 2052a 
comprises sections covering broad funding 
classifications by product, outstanding balance 
and purpose, segmented by maturity date.
 OMB Control Number:
 7100-0361

 Purpose: The data are used to monitor an 
individual organization's overall liquidity 
profile for institutions supervised by the Federal 
Reserve. These data also provide detailed 
information on the liquidity risks within 
different business lines (e.g., financing of 
securities positions and prime brokerage 
activities). In particular, the data serve as 
part of the Federal Reserve's supervisory 
surveillance program in its liquidity risk 
management area and provide timely information on 
firm-specific liquidity risks during periods of 
stress.
 Background: The financial crisis of 2007 and 
2008 highlighted the need for timely liquidity 
data to identify and monitor liquidity risks at 
individual firms as well as in aggregate across 
the financial system. The data provided in the FR 
2052a report meets this need. The crisis 
highlighted the importance of understanding intra-
company flows and exposures within a consolidated 
institution. Capturing such flows is a focus of 
the FR 2052a, particularly at large, systemically 
important, globally active U.S. banking 
institutions. A single, consolidated view is not 
sufficient to provide meaningful insight into an 
institution's liquidity profile. Rather, 
disaggregated views by legal entities (parent 
company, broker/dealer entities, bank entities 
etc.) have contributed to supervisory monitoring 
efforts and risk supervision by identifying 
vulnerabilities posed by potential impediments to 
the movement of liquidity across legal entities. 
Finally, the collection of these data assist the 
Federal Reserve's macroprudential supervision.
 Respondent Panel: The FR 2052a is filed by banking 
organizations subject to Category I, II, III, or 
IV standards under the Board's Regulation YY and 
Regulation LL. This includes (1) any top-tier U.S. 
bank holding company with $100 billion or more in 
total consolidated assets that is not a subsidiary 
of a foreign banking organization, (2) any top-
tier U.S. savings and loan holding company with 
$100 billion or more in total consolidated assets 
that is a covered depository institution holding 
company as defined by the Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
and Net Stable Funding Ratio rules and is not a 
subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, and 
(3) any foreign banking organization, as defined 
by the Board's Regulation YY, with combined U.S. 
assets of $100 billion or more.
 Frequency: U.S. banking organizations that 
are identified as (1) global systemically 
important bank holding companies, (2) banking 
organizations subject to Category II standards, or 
(3) banking organizations subject to Category III 
standards with average weighted short-term 
wholesale funding of $75 billion or more must 
submit a report on each business day. U.S. banking 
organizations that are identified as (1) banking 
organizations subject to Category III standards 
with average weighted short-term wholesale funding 
of less than $75 billion, or (2) banking 
organizations subject to Category IV standards 
must submit a report monthly. Foreign banking 
organizations identified as (1) foreign banking 
organizations subject to Category II standards, or 
(2) foreign banking organizations subject to 
Category III standards with average weighted 
short-term wholesale funding of $75 billion or 
more must submit a report on each business day. 
Foreign banking organizations identified as (1) 
foreign banking organizations subject to Category 
III standards with average weighted short-term 
wholesale funding of less than $75 billion, or (2) 
foreign banking organizations subject to Category 
IV standards must submit a report monthly. 
Consistent with current supervisory authority and 
processes, the Board, during periods of stress, 
may temporarily require FR 2052a liquidity data 
from monthly filers on a more frequent basis.
 Public Release: Micro data from the FR 2052a are 
considered confidential and are not published.

 Historical

 
 
 
 
 
 Forms and Instructions
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Form: March 2023 (2.7 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: April 2022 (2.6 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: June 2020 (7.3 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: May 2020 (9.2 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: March 2019 (1.7 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: December 2016 (1.7 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: December 2015 (1.4 MB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: Included in Form 
 

 
 Form: September 2014 (81.7 KB .PDF) 
 | Instructions: September 2014 (250.5 KB .PDF) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 Last Update: February 26, 2025
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 Back to
 Top
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Board of Governors
 of the
 Federal Reserve System
 
 
 
 About the Fed
 

 
 News & Events
 

 
 Monetary Policy
 

 
 Supervision & Regulation
 

 
 Financial Stability
 

 
 Payment Systems
 

 
 Economic Research
 

 
 Data
 

 
 Consumers & Communities
 

 
 

 
 Tools and Information
 
 
 Contact
 

 
 Publications
 

 
 Freedom of Information (FOIA)
 

 
 Office of Inspector General
 

 
 Budget & Performance
 | Audit
 

 
 No FEAR Act
 

 
 Español
 

 
 Website Policies
 | Privacy Program
 

 
 Accessibility
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Stay Connected
 
 
 
 Federal Reserve Facebook
 Page
 
 
 
 
 Federal Reserve
 Instagram Page
 
 

 
 
 Federal Reserve YouTube
 Page
 
 

 
 
 Federal Reserve
 Flickr Page
 
 

 
 
 Federal
 Reserve LinkedIn Page
 
 

 
 
 Federal
 Reserve Threads Page
 
 
 
 Link to Federal Reserve Twitter Page
 

 
 Subscribe to RSS
 

 
 Subscribe to Email
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 Board of Governors of the Federal
 Reserve System
 

 
 20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551