Skip to main content

 
 
 

 
 

An official website of the United States government

 
 
 

Careers

Quick Access

Most Requested

Bank Secrecy Act (BSA)

Contact Us

Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)

Comptroller's Handbook

Corporate Applications Search

Enforcement Action Search

Financial Institution Lists

Newsroom

Third-Party Relationships: Interagency Guidance on Risk Management

More OCC Websites

BankNet.gov

Find resources for bankers. 

HelpWithMyBank.gov

Get answers to banking questions. 

Search

More Search Tools

Financial Institution Search

CRA Performance Evaluations Search

Enforcement Actions Search

Corporate Applications Search (CAS)

 

 
 
 
 
 

 ​

 Search

Menu 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Home

 
 
 News & Events

 
 
 Newsroom

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 OCC Bulletin 2023-25
 |
 July 28, 2023
 

Liquidity: Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management

 


 

 
 Share This Page:

 
 

 
 

 







 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To
Chief Executive Officers of All National Banks, Federal Savings Associations, and Federal Branches and Agencies; Department and Division Heads; All Examining Personnel; and Other Interested Parties

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
Summary

The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and National Credit Union Administration (collectively, the agencies1) are issuing an addendum to the “Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management” issued March 22, 2010. The addendum reminds banks2 of the importance of maintaining, assessing, and testing their contingency funding plans as part of their liquidity risk management program and activities.

Note for Community Banks

This addendum applies to community banks.

Highlights

The events of the first half of 2023 have further underscored the importance of liquidity risk management and contingency funding planning. The addendum highlights the importance of contingency funding plans to promote the availability of adequate sources of funding in times of stress, including that banks

assess the stability of their funding and maintain a broad range of funding sources that can be accessed in adverse circumstances.

ensure that they have access to a range of contingent sources of funding, especially when some contingency lines may be unavailable in times of idiosyncratic or market stress.

review and revise contingency funding plans periodically, and more frequently as market conditions or strategic initiatives change.

understand requirements and maintain operational readiness to borrow from federal funding facilities, such as the Federal Reserve discount window, if these facilities are part of their contingency funding plans.

Further Information

Please contact the Treasury and Market Risk Policy Division at (202) 649-6360.

 

Grovetta N. Gardineer

Senior Deputy Comptroller for Bank Supervision Policy

Related Links

Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of Contingency Funding Plans (PDF)

1 The federal financial regulatory agencies are the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the National Credit Union Administration.

2 “Banks” refers collectively to national banks, federal savings associations, and federal branches and agencies of foreign banking organizations.

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Topic(s):
 
 
 Capital Markets

 Liquidity

 Treasury & Market Risk

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

Our websites

BankNet.gov

Find resources for bankers.

HelpWithMyBank.gov

Get answers to banking questions.

Careers

Join one of the best places to work.

OCC.gov

Visit the official website of the OCC.

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Privacy Policy

 USA.gov

Accessibility

 U.S. Treasury

Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

 
 No Fear Act Data

Whistleblower Protection

Vulnerability Disclosure

Contact

Get OCC Email Updates