1 
 
 
Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: 
Importance of Contingency Funding Plans 
  
Depository institutions should maintain actionable contingency funding plans that consider a 
range of possible stress scenarios.1  The events of the first half of 2023 have further underscored 
the importance of liquidity risk management and contingency funding planning.  As seen in these 
events, the level and speed of deposit outflows at a few firms was unprecedented and contributed 
to acute liquidity and funding strain at those institutions.  These events are a reminder to 
depository institutions that depositor behavior and broader market conditions may evolve over 
time, and sometimes without warning.  
 
  
Depository institutions should assess the stability of their funding and maintain a broad range of 
funding sources that can be accessed in adverse circumstances.  In addition, depository 
institutions should be aware of the operational steps required to obtain funding from contingency 
funding sources, including potential counterparties, contact details, and availability of 
collateral.  As part of operational readiness, depository institutions should regularly test any 
contingency borrowing lines to ensure the institution’s staff are well versed in how to access 
them and that they function as envisioned.  In particular, depository institutions should engage in 
planning that recognizes the operational challenges involved in moving and posting collateral to 
access critical funding in a timely fashion.  Such planning may require initial or renewed contact 
with entities such as the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
 
 
Depository institutions’ contingency funding plans should recognize that during times of stress, 
contingency lines may become unavailable.  For example, repo lines may become unavailable to 
a bank or credit union borrower either due to concerns of the repo lender about the 
creditworthiness of the bank or credit union or due to the repo lender needing to conserve 
liquidity more generally.  Depository institution contingency funding plans should take this 
dynamic into account and include a range of contingency funding sources.
 
 
Depository institutions should review and revise contingency funding plans periodically and 
more frequently as market conditions and strategic initiatives change in order to address evolving 
liquidity risks.  For example, an institution that increases the share of its liabilities comprised of 
less stable funding should consider whether it needs to increase its capacity to borrow from 
contingency funding sources.
 
 
The agencies view having access to a range of reliable contingency funding sources as a key 
component of safety and soundness.
2  
 
 
1 See Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management, Federal Reserve SR 10- 6 (March 
17, 2010), FDIC FIL-13-2010 (April 10, 2010), and OCC Bulletin 2010-13 (March 22, 2010).  These individual 
agency issuances released the 2010 Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management, 
which can be accessed here:  https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2010-03-22/pdf/2010-6137.pdf. 
 
2 Depository institutions should be aware that establishing contingency funding arrangements may take time.  For 
example, the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management noted that it is important to 
consider time constraints associated with initially establishing lines with the  appropriate Federal Reserve Bank 
and/or the appropriate Federal Home Loan Bank. See id. 

 
 
2 
 
 
 Contingency Funding and the Federal Reserve Discount Window 
  
In an environment where liquidity stress manifests quickly, the discount window is an important 
tool that depository institutions can utilize in managing liquidity risk, and the agencies encourage 
depository institutions to incorporate the discount window as part of their contingency funding 
arrangements. 
 
 
If the discount window is a part of a depository institution’s contingency funding plans, the 
depository institution should establish and maintain operational readiness to borrow from the 
discount window. Operational readiness includes establishing borrowing arrangements and 
ensuring collateral is available for borrowing in an amount appropriate for a depository 
institution’s potential contingency funding needs. Depository institutions should ensure they are 
familiar with the pledging process for different collateral types and be aware that pre-pledging 
collateral can be useful if liquidity needs arise quickly. Depository institutions that include the 
discount window as part of their contingency funding plan should also consider conducting small 
value transactions at regular intervals to ensure familiarity with discount window operations.  
 
  
Information regarding the discount window is available at FRBdiscountwindow.org. 
 
Credit Union Contingency Funding and the Central Liquidity Facility 
 
Federal and state-chartered credit unions can access the Central Liquidity Facility as a contingent 
federal liquidity source.  The Central Liquidity Facility exists to provide federally sourced 
backup liquidity where a credit union’s liquidity and market funding sources prove inadequate.  
 
Section 741.12 of NCUA’s regulations outlines requirements for federally insured credit unions 
to have liquidity and contingency funding plans.  The scope of these plans varies by credit union 
size.  Credit unions with assets greater than $250 million must, among other things, establish and 
document access to at least one contingent federal liquidity source.  Credit unions subject to this 
requirement may demonstrate access to a contingent federal liquidity source by maintaining 
membership in the Central Liquidity Facility or establishing borrowing access at the Federal 
Reserve discount window.  Credit unions between $50 million and $250 million in total assets 
must, among other things, include in required policies, identification of contingent liquidity 
sources.  Credit unions under $50 million must maintain a basic written policy that provides a 
framework for managing liquidity and includes a list of contingent liquidity sources that can be 
employed under adverse circumstances. 
 
Information regarding the Central Liquidity Facility is available at NCUA.gov/support-
services/central-liquidity-facility.