Enforcement Actions Search

 

 
 








 
 
 Enter a bank name, person's name, city, state, or other details.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Help

 
 Enter details to help find enforcement actions.


 Example #1: John Doe, New York, NY

 
 Example #2: Woodgrove Bank, civil money penalty

 Example #3: Contoso Ltd., formal agreements, 2015


 Use the Advanced Search to select a date range.

 To only return all records, leave the search field empty.
 

 

 


 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 


 
 
 
 Loading...

 
 Search within
 Bank Name
 

 

 
 Advanced...
 

 


 
 




 Advanced Search

 
 
 
 Enter a bank name, person's name, city, state, or other details.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Help

 
 Enter details to help find enforcement actions.


 Example #1: John Doe, New York, NY

 
 Example #2: Woodgrove Bank, civil money penalty

 Example #3: Contoso Ltd., formal agreements, 2015


 Use the Advanced Search to select a date range.

 To only return all records, leave the search field empty.
 

 

 


 
 
 
 

 

 


 
 
 

 Loading...

 
 Search within
 Bank Name
 

 

 
 Close Advanced...
 

 


 
 
 
 Date Ranges:
 
 
 Start Date Range:

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 Termination Date Range:

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 Error

 
 


 
 
 Enforcement Action Types:
 
 
 Select Action Type(s):
 

 


 
 
 Show Records for Individuals
 

 
 
 Show Records for Institutions
 

 
 


 
 
 Terminated Records:
 
 
 Show Terminated Records
 

 
 
 Show Active Records
 

 
 


 
 
 Enforcement Subject Matters:
 Select Subject Matter(s):
 
 
 
 
 

 
 


 
 * Disclaimer: 1829 - Prohibition Notifications: Prohibition Notifications prior to December 23, 2022, do not appear on these lists due to statutory changes to 12 USC § 1829 pursuant to the Fair Hiring in Banking Act.
 


 
 
 Search
 
 
 Reset
 
 

 





 
 
 No enforcement actions found. Please try another search.
 

 






 
 
 January 2025 Update:
 

 
 Enforcement actions issued since 2012 now have subject matters. Use advanced search to filter by “Subject Matter.”
 


 
 Quick Links:
 

 
 
 Enforcement actions types
 

 
 Enforcement actions information page
 

 

 
 The OCC supervises the following entities and has the statutory authority to take enforcement actions against them:
 

 
 National banks and their subsidiaries

 Federally chartered savings associations and their subsidiaries

 Federal branches and agencies of foreign banks

 
 Institution-affiliated parties (IAPs), including:
 
 Officers, directors, and employees

 A bank's controlling stockholders, agents, and certain other individuals.

 
 

 

 
 Notes:
 

 
 
 The names of the banking organizations accessed through the Enforcement Action Search reflect the institutions' identities when the enforcement documents became final.
 

 
 The orders do not necessarily reflect the current status of the regulatory action against the institution or the institution-affiliated party. You should use the Search function to determine if an order or notice has been modified or terminated.
 

 
 Please reference OCC Bulletin 2023-16 and the related Policies and Procedures Manuals (PPMs) for additional information on enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (IAPs), national banks, federal savings associations, and federal branches and agencies of foreign banks.
 

 

 
 Disclaimer:
 

 
 
 1829 - Prohibition Notifications*: Prohibition Notifications prior to December 23, 2022, do not appear on these lists due to statutory changes to 12 USC § 1829 pursuant to the Fair Hiring in Banking Act.
 

 
 Enforcement actions taken against federally chartered savings associations prior to July 21, 2011, are only available in the
 OTS Enforcement Order Archive (XLS). For information about the data fields used in this spreadsheet, refer to the
 OTS Enforcement Order Listing Definitions (PDF).
 

 
 The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency expressly disclaims any responsibility for the acts of any individual or entity subject to an enforcement action, whether or not that individual or entity appears on these lists.
 

 
 
 These lists are NOT guaranteed to be comprehensive.