1
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
 U.S. Department of the Treasury
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
June 30, 2021
The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), 1 after consulting with the U.S. 
Department of the Treasury’s (Treasury’s) Offices of Terrorist Financing and Financial 
Crimes, Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), and Intelligence and Analysis, as well as the 
Attorney General, Federal functional regulators, 2 relevant state financial regulators, and 
relevant law enforcement and national security agencies, is issuing these first government-
wide priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (AML/
CFT) policy (the “Priorities”).  These Priorities are being issued pursuant to Section 5318(h)
(4)(A) of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), 3 as amended by Section 6101(b)(2)(C) of the Anti-
Money Laundering Act of 2020 (the “ AML Act”).4  As required by Section 5318(h)(4)(C) of 
the BSA, the Priorities are consistent with Treasury’s 2018 and 2020 National Strategy for 
Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing (the “National Strategy”). 5
As explained in more detail below, the Priorities are, in no particular order: (1) corruption; 
(2) cybercrime, including relevant cybersecurity and virtual currency considerations; (3) 
foreign and domestic terrorist financing; (4) fraud; (5) transnational criminal organization 
activity; (6) drug trafficking organization activity; (7) human trafficking and human 
smuggling; and (8) proliferation financing.  The establishment of these Priorities is intended 
to assist all covered institutions 6 in their efforts to meet their obligations under laws and 
regulations designed to combat money laundering and counter terrorist financing.
1. Congress has authorized the Secretary of the Treasury (the “Secretary”) to administer the BSA. The Secretary 
has delegated to the Director of FinCEN the authority to implement, administer, and enforce compliance with 
the BSA and associated regulations.  See Treasury Order 180–01 (January 14, 2020).
2. 31 U.S.C. § 5318(h)(4)(A) (as amended by AML Act § 6101(b)(2)(C)) uses the term Federal functional regulator 
“as defined in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809)).”
3. Section 6003(1) of the AML Act of 2020, Division F of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2021, Pub. L. 116-283 (January 1, 2021), defines the BSA as comprising Section 21 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1829b), Chapter 2 of Title I of Pub. L. 91-508 (12 U.S.C. 1951 et seq.), and Subchapter 
II of Chapter 53 of Title 31, United States Code.
4. The AML Act was enacted as Division F, §§ 6001-6511, of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, Pub. L. 116-283 (2021).
5. See Treasury, National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing, December 20, 2018; Treasury, 
National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing, February 6, 2020.
6. Covered institutions are financial institutions required by BSA regulations to maintain an AML program.  See 
31 CFR §§ 1020.210(a) (banks); 1020.210(b) (banks without a Federal functional regulator); 1021.210 (casinos and 
card clubs); 1022.210 (money services businesses); 1023.210 (brokers or dealers in securities); 1024.210 (mutual 
funds); 1025.210 (insurance companies); 1026.210 (futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in 
commodities); 1027.210 (dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels); 1028.210 (operators of credit card 
systems); 1029.210 (loan or finance companies); and 1030.210 (housing government sponsored enterprises).

2
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
FinCEN will issue regulations at a later date that will specify how financial institutions 
should incorporate these Priorities into their risk-based AML programs. 7  FinCEN 
recognizes that not every Priority will be relevant to every covered institution, but each 
covered institution should, upon the effective date of future regulations to be promulgated 
in connection with these Priorities, review and incorporate, as appropriate, each Priority 
based on the institution’s broader risk-based AML program.  FinCEN, in coordination with 
relevant federal and state regulators, has also issued two statements to provide additional 
guidance to all covered institutions on the applicability of these Priorities at this time, before 
regulations are promulgated.     
I. Methodology
To develop the Priorities, which focus on threats to the U.S. financial system and national 
security, FinCEN consulted with a number of stakeholders including those with which it was 
required to consult pursuant to the AML Act.  FinCEN also considered a variety of sources 
of information, including the 2018 and 2020 National Strategies and related risk assessments, 
prior FinCEN advisories and guidance documents, economic and trade sanctions actions, 
notices issued by FinCEN and other Treasury components, and previous feedback from law 
enforcement and covered institutions through the BSA Advisory Group. 8  References to these 
sources throughout the Priorities are solely intended to provide background information, 
and FinCEN is not incorporating by reference these additional sources into the Priorities.  
Consistent with Treasury’s 2018 National Money Laundering Risk Assessment, which 
informs the National Strategy, “threats” for purposes of these Priorities are predicate crimes 
associated with money laundering. 9  These threats exploit some perceived “vulnerability” in 
the U.S. financial system that may be in law, regulation, supervision, or enforcement, or may 
stem from a unique attribute of a product, service, or jurisdiction. 10
In consultation with the agencies and offices listed above, FinCEN will update the Priorities 
at least once every four years, as required by the AML Act, 11 to account for new and 
emerging threats to the U.S. financial system and national security.
7. 31 U.S.C. § 5318(h)(4)(D) as amended by AML Act § 6101(b)(2)(C).
8. As required under section 1654 of the Annunzio-Wylie Anti-Money Laundering Act of 1992, the BSA 
Advisory Group consists of representatives from federal agencies and other interested persons and financial 
institutions subject to the regulatory requirements of the BSA.
9. See Treasury, National Money Laundering Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 6.
10. Id. (defining “vulnerability”).  The National Strategy sets forth in detail ten vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial 
system.  See Treasury, National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing, February 6, 2020, at 
12-36.
11. 31 U.S.C. § 5318(h)(4)(B) (as amended by AML Act § 6101(b)(2)(C)).

3
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
II. AML/CFT Priorities
The Priorities reflect longstanding and continuing AML/CFT concerns previously identified 
by FinCEN and other Treasury components and U.S. government departments and agencies.  
The Priorities include predicate crimes that generate illicit proceeds that illicit actors may 
launder through the financial system.  As such, money laundering is linked to all of the 
Priorities and is not specifically enumerated below as a separate Priority.  Combating money 
laundering remains core to FinCEN and TFI’s missions.   
A) Corruption
As explained in the National Security Study Memorandum issued by President Biden on June 
3, 2021, corruption fuels instability and conflict and undermines economic growth.12  It has 
been estimated that corruption reduces global gross domestic product by between 2 and 5 
percent.13  Corruption, both domestic and foreign, threatens U.S. national security by eroding 
citizens’ faith in government, distorting economies, and weakening democratic institutions. 
Corrupt actors and their financial facilitators may seek to take advantage of vulnerabilities in 
the U.S. financial system to launder their assets and obscure the proceeds of crime.  Corruption 
rots democracy from the inside and is increasingly weaponized by authoritarian states to 
undermine their own democratic institutions as well as disrupt democratic processes in other 
nations through foreign influence campaigns.14  Misappropriation of public assets, bribery, 
and other forms of corruption affects individuals and entities across the world, threatens the 
national security of the United States and the global financial system, degrades the rule of law, 
perpetuates conflict, and deprives innocent civilians of fundamental human rights.  
Corruption undermines democratic institutions and underpins many of the global challenges 
of our time, to include serious human rights abuse, and has a disproportionate impact on the 
poor and most vulnerable.  For all of these reasons, countering corruption is a core national 
security interest of the United States. 15  Addressing the money laundering risks associated 
with such corruption will bolster efforts to counter corruption.
FinCEN has issued advisories on human rights abuses enabled by corrupt senior foreign 
political figures and their financial facilitators with respect to Nicaragua, South Sudan, and 
Venezuela.16  These advisories, while focused on specific foreign jurisdictions, can help covered 
institutions comply with their BSA obligations by identifying typologies and red flags, but the 
jurisdictions noted in those advisories are not the only ones at risk of corruption.    
12. See The White House, National Security Study Memorandum Establishing the Fight Against Corruption as a Core 
United States National Security Interest (NSSM-1), June 2021.
13. Id.
14. Id.
15. Id.
16. See FinCEN, Advisory to Financial Institutions on the Risk of Proceeds of Corruption from Nicaragua, October 4, 
2018; FinCEN, Advisory on Political Corruption Risks in South Sudan, September 6, 2017; FinCEN, Advisory on 
Widespread Public Corruption in Venezuela, September 20, 2017.

4
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
B) Cybercrime, including Relevant Cybersecurity and  
Virtual Currency Considerations
Cybercrime is broadly defined as any illegal activity that involves a computer, another 
digital device, or a computer network.  Cybercrime includes common cybersecurity threats 
like social engineering, software vulnerability exploits, and network attacks.  Cybercrime is 
a significant illicit finance threat: the size, reach, speed, and accessibility of the U.S. financial 
system make covered institutions attractive targets to criminals, including terrorists and 
state actors.  These actors target covered institutions’ websites, systems, and employees to 
steal customer and commercial credentials and proprietary information, defraud covered 
institutions and their customers, and disrupt business functions.  Foreign interference 
in democratic processes, such as elections and election infrastructure, is often conducted 
through cyber-enabled methods.  Treasury is particularly concerned about cyber-enabled 
financial crime, ransomware attacks, and the misuse of virtual assets that exploits and 
undermines their innovative potential, including through laundering of illicit proceeds.
FinCEN has issued advisories with respect to ransomware and COVID-19-related 
cybercrime, including cyber-enabled financial crime, to alert covered institutions to 
predominant trends, typologies, and potential indicators. 17  Regarding the COVID-19 
pandemic, FinCEN advised covered institutions that criminals increasingly exploited 
the pandemic through phishing campaigns and the compromise of remote applications 
to facilitate extortion, business email compromise (BEC), and other fraudulent schemes, 
especially against financial and health care systems. 18  Ill-gotten gains from these illicit 
activities often are laundered through a variety of methods, including rapid transfers 
through accounts controlled by the cyber actors or money mules. 19  Covered institutions 
are uniquely positioned to observe the suspicious activity that results from cybercrime, 
including cyber-enabled financial crime.  FinCEN recently issued a fact sheet to encourage 
covered institutions to share such information with one another under a safe harbor 
provision of the BSA that offers protections from civil liability, in order to better identify and 
report potential money laundering or terrorist financing. 20
17. See FinCEN, Advisory on Ransomware and the Use of the Financial System to Facilitate Ransom Payments, 
October 1, 2020; FinCEN, Advisory on Cybercrime and Cyber-Enabled Crime Exploiting the Coronavirus Disease 
2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic, July 30, 2020.  Ransomware attacks are a tactic deployed by criminals to block 
access to computer systems or data to extort ransom payments from victims in exchange for decrypting the 
information and restoring victims’ access to their systems or data and for refraining from leaking data or 
taking further actions intended to harm the victim.  Some ransomware groups are forming partnerships, or 
“ransomware cartels,” in organized ventures to share advice, code, trends, techniques, practices, and leaked 
data over shared platforms.
18. See FinCEN, Advisory on Cybercrime and Cyber-Enabled Crime Exploiting the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
Pandemic, July 30, 2020.
19. A money mule is “a person who transfers illegally acquired money on behalf of or at the direction of 
another.”  See FinCEN, Advisory on Imposter Scams and Money Mule Schemes Related to Coronavirus Disease 2019 
(COVID-19), July 7, 2020.
20. See USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-56, § 314(b) (2001); 31 CFR § 1010.540; FinCEN, FinCEN 
Director Emphasizes Importance of Information Sharing Among Financial Institutions, December 10, 2020.

5
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
As evidenced by recent attacks on the nation’s fuel and food supplies, ransomware is a 
particularly acute concern, as criminals increasingly use sophisticated attacks to target 
various sectors, including government, finance, education, energy, and health care. 
Countering ransomware has been identified as a top priority for the United States, which 
is committed to working with like-minded partners around the world to disrupt and deter 
ransomware actors, including by developing cohesive and consistent policies towards 
ransom payments and enabling rapid tracing and interdiction of virtual currency proceeds. 21  
According to law enforcement and reporting from covered institutions and others in the 
private sector, ransomware attacks increased dramatically in 2020 and 2021 in both scale and 
sophistication, posing a threat to the U.S. health care system and other critical infrastructure, 
as well as U.S. national security and economic prosperity.  In some instances, ransomware 
campaigns have been associated with adversary governments, sanctioned entities, or 
jurisdictions with weak AML/CFT regimes and high AML/CFT and sanctions risks, such 
as Russia, North Korea, and Iran.  OFAC issued an advisory 22 in late 2020 highlighting the 
sanctions risks associated with ransomware payments related to malicious cyber-enabled 
activities.  OFAC has designated numerous malicious cyber actors under its sanctions 
programs in response to aggressive and harmful malicious cyber activities by state actors 
targeting U.S. government and private sector networks.  
FinCEN notes that, while a substantial financial innovation, convertible virtual currencies 
(CVCs)23 also have grown as the currency of preference in a wide variety of online illicit 
activity.  In addition to being the preferred form of payment for buying ransomware tools 
and services, online child exploitation material, illicit drugs and other illicit goods online, 
and for paying ransoms to the perpetrators of ransomware attacks, CVCs often are used to 
layer transactions to hide the origin of money derived from illicit activity. 24  Criminals use 
a number of techniques to obscure the source of illicit funds when conducting transactions 
involving CVCs, including the use of mixers and tumblers. 25  CVCs have been used by some 
of the highest-priority threat actors to advance their illegal activities and nuclear weapons 
ambitions.  For example, North Korea-linked cyber actors likely have stolen hundreds 
of millions of dollars’ worth of CVCs since 2019 through cyber operations against CVC 
service providers, laundered stolen CVC value through other CVC service providers and 
CVC wallets, and used the proceeds to help fund weapons of mass destruction and ballistic 
missile programs. 26  Victim institutions, and institutions used for laundering stolen funds, 
21. White House Press Briefing, Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, June 2, 2021, June 2, 2021.
22. See OFAC, Advisory on Potential Sanctions Risks for Facilitating Ransomware Payments, October 1, 2020.
23. See FinCEN, Application of FinCEN’s Regulations to Certain Business Models Involving Convertible Virtual 
Currencies, May 9, 2019, for additional information related to CVCs.
24. See Treasury, National Money Laundering Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 3.
25. Mixing or tumbling involves the use of mechanisms to break the connection between an address sending 
CVC and the addresses receiving CVC.  See FinCEN, Advisory on Illicit Activity Involving Convertible Virtual 
Currency, May 9, 2019.
26. See Treasury, Treasury Sanctions Individuals Laundering Cryptocurrency for Lazarus Group, March 2, 2020.

6
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
are based in several countries, highlighting the global nature of financial crimes involving 
CVCs.  In 2019, FinCEN issued an advisory to help covered institutions identify and report 
suspicious activity concerning how criminals and other bad actors exploit CVCs. 27
In 2016, FinCEN issued an advisory with respect to cybercrime that set out typologies and 
red flags for covered financial institutions’ BSA/AML compliance and cybersecurity units, 
and encouraged greater cooperation between those units. 28
C) Terrorist Financing
Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the threat posed by international and domestic 
terrorism has evolved significantly.  Internationally, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
(ISIS), Al Qaeda, Lebanese Hizballah, and Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps remain 
significant and persistent terrorist threats to U.S. interests and allies.  Domestically, the 
Intelligence Community assesses that racially or ethnically motivated violent extremists 
(RMVEs)—primarily those advocating for the superiority of the white race—and anti-
government or anti-authority violent extremists are the most lethal domestic violent 
extremist (DVE) threats. 29  Additionally, the National Strategy for Countering Domestic 
Terrorism, issued on June 15, 2021, highlights the ongoing threat to Americans posed by 
domestic terrorism. 30
Terrorists require financing to recruit and support members, fund logistics, and conduct 
operations.  Preventing such financing, therefore, is essential to counter the threat of 
terrorism successfully.  Covered institutions are reminded of existing obligations to identify 
and file SARs on potential terrorist financing transactions, as appropriate, and follow 
applicable requirements for reporting violations requiring immediate attention. 31  Terrorist 
financing includes lone actors using small amounts of money to self-fund attacks, as well 
as more complex schemes and networks that may be embedded within existing money 
laundering methods used to support logistical networks, operatives, and the procurement of 
material.  In 2015 and 2018, Treasury raised awareness of the issue by publishing a National 
Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment and addressed the associated vulnerabilities in the 2020 
27. Id.
28. See FinCEN, Advisory to Financial Institutions on Cyber-Events and Cyber-Enabled Crime, October 25, 2016.
29. Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Department of Justice, and Department of Homeland Security, 
Joint Comprehensive Threat Assessment on Domestic Violent Extremism, March  1, 2021, at 2.  For additional 
information on the threat posed by domestic terrorists, see Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of 
Homeland Security, Strategic Intelligence Assessment and Data on Domestic Terrorism, May 2021.
30. See The White House, National Strategy For Countering Domestic Terrorism, June 15, 2021.
31. See 31 CFR §§ 1020.320 (banks); 1021.320 (casinos and card clubs); 1022.320 (money services businesses); 
1023.320 (brokers or dealers in securities); 1024.320 (mutual funds); 1025.320 (insurance companies); 
1026.320 (futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities); 1029.210 (loan or finance 
companies); and 1030.210 (housing government sponsored enterprises).

7
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
National Strategy. 32  As a countermeasure to these potential risks, covered institutions must 
comply with required sanctions programs and, as part of their risk-based AML programs, 
also should be aware of terrorists and terrorist organizations that are included on sanctions 
lists issued by the U.S. government.     
i. International Terrorism 
The most common type of international terrorism activity in the United States involves 
individuals who knowingly provide funds to overseas terrorists, terrorist groups, or their 
supporters abroad. 33  Most terrorist groups still primarily rely on banks, money services 
businesses, and cash couriers to transfer funds, though some more regularly seek small-
dollar donations in digital assets. 34
Disrupting terrorist networks, such as those supporting Al Qaeda and Hizballah, and 
preventing an ISIS resurgence are vitally important for the security of the United States and 
its allies.35  Rather than fund complex attacks, ISIS and Al Qaeda now rely more on self-
radicalized individuals and homegrown violent extremists who carry out relatively low-cost 
and unsophisticated but deadly attacks using knives, firearms, improvised explosive devices, 
or automobiles.  In addition, U.S. authorities have identified U.S.-based individuals who 
raise and send money to support violence overseas or who travel to Iraq and Syria as foreign 
terrorist fighters. 36
ii. Domestic Terrorism
DVEs are individuals based and operating primarily within the territorial jurisdiction of the 
United States who seek to further their ideological goals wholly or in part through unlawful 
acts of force or violence. 37  The intelligence and law enforcement communities conducted a 
comprehensive assessment of the domestic terrorism threat and assessed that RMVEs and 
32. See Treasury, National Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment, June 12, 2015; Treasury, National Terrorist Financing 
Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018; Treasury, National Strategy for Combatting Terrorist and Other Illicit 
Financing, February 6, 2020.
33. See Treasury, National Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 2.
34. See Treasury, National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing, February 6, 2020, at 11.
35. See The White House, Interim National Security Strategic Guidance, March 2021, at 11.
36. See U.S. Department of State, Country Reports on Terrorism, June 24, 2020, at 3.
37. Domestic terrorism, as defined by 18 U.S.C. § 2331(5), means activities that “(A) involve acts dangerous 
to human life that are a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State; (B) appear to be 
intended—(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by 
intimidation or coercion; or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, 
or kidnapping; and (C) occur primarily within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.”  However, 
“[m]ere advocacy of political or social positions, political activism, use of strong rhetoric, or generalized 
philosophic embrace of violent tactics may not constitute violent extremism, and may be constitutionally 
protected.”  Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Department of Justice, and Department of 
Homeland Security, Joint Comprehensive Threat Assessment on Domestic Violent Extremism, March  1, 2021, at 3-4.

8
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
militia violent extremists present the most lethal DVE threats. 38  RMVEs use or threaten to 
use force or violence in furtherance of ideological agendas derived from bias—often related 
to race or ethnicity—against given population groups. 39  They purport to use both political 
and religious justifications to support racially or ethnically based ideological objectives and 
criminal activities, and have used or threatened acts of violence to promote their agendas. 40  
Militia violent extremists use or threaten to use force or violence in furtherance of an anti-
government or anti-authority violent extremist ideology, including opposition to abuses of 
power by the government. 41
Some DVEs have focused on accessible targets like civilians, law enforcement and the 
military, symbols or members of the U.S. government, houses of worship, retail locations, 
and mass public gatherings.  DVEs’ selection of these types of targets, in addition to the 
insular nature of DVEs’ radicalization and mobilization to violence and their limited 
discussions with others, challenges law enforcement to detect and disrupt the activities of 
DVEs before they occur. 42
D) Fraud
As previously noted in Treasury’s National Money Laundering Risk Assessments, the crimes 
that generate the bulk of illicit proceeds in the United States are fraud, drug trafficking, 
human smuggling, human trafficking, organized crime, and corruption. 43  Among those, 
fraud—such as bank, consumer, health care, securities and investment, and tax fraud—is 
believed to generate the largest share of illicit proceeds in the United States. 44  Health care 
fraud alone is estimated to generate proceeds of approximately $100 billion annually. 45  
Increasingly, fraud schemes are internet-enabled, such as romance scams, synthetic identity 
fraud, and other forms of identity theft. 46  Proceeds from fraudulent activities may be 
laundered through a variety of methods, including transfers through accounts of offshore 
legal entities, accounts controlled by cyber actors, and money mules. 
38. See Office of Director of National Intelligence, Department of Justice, and Department of Homeland Security, 
Joint Comprehensive Threat Assessment on Domestic Violent Extremism, March 1, 2021.  Additionally, on May 14, 
2021, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued a National Terrorism Advisory System Bulletin 
due to a heightened threat environment across the United States, including from DVEs.  See DHS, National 
Terrorism Advisory System Bulletin, May 14, 2021.
39. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Homeland Security, Strategic Intelligence Assessment and Data 
on Domestic Terrorism, May 2021, at 15.
40. Id.
41. See Office of Director of National Intelligence, Department of Justice, and Department of Homeland Security, 
Joint Comprehensive Threat Assessment on Domestic Violent Extremism, March 1, 2021
42. See FBI Director Christopher A. Wray, Oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigation: The January 6 Insurrection, 
Domestic Terrorism, and Other Threats, March 2, 2021.
43. See Treasury, National Money Laundering Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 2.
44. Id.
45. Id.
46. Id.

9
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
FinCEN has issued several fraud-related advisories, in particular with respect to BEC, email 
account compromise, and COVID-19.  In 2019, FinCEN noted that BEC and email account 
compromise schemes were among a growing trend of cyber-enabled crime, with 32,000 
reported cases involving almost $9 billion in attempted theft from BEC fraud schemes 
affecting U.S. financial institutions and their customers. 47  More recently, fraud related to 
the COVID-19 pandemic has been of particular concern, and has been the subject of six 
FinCEN Advisories, including: economic impact payment, health insurance and health 
care, unemployment insurance, counterfeit COVID-19 vaccine, pump-and-dump and other 
market manipulation schemes, and cyber-enabled fraud schemes. 48  The Department of 
Justice is aggressively pursuing a wide range of COVID-19-related fraud schemes. 49
Also of concern are foreign intelligence entities and their proxies, which employ illicit 
financial practices to fund influence campaigns and facilitate a range of espionage activity 
by establishing front companies, and conducting targeted investments to gain access to 
sensitive U.S. individuals, information, technology and intellectual property. 50
E) Transnational Criminal Organization Activity
Transnational criminal organizations (TCOs) operating in the United States, 51 including 
drug trafficking organizations (DTOs), are priority threats due to the crime-terror nexus and 
TCOs’ engagement in a wide range of illicit activities, including cybercrime, drug trafficking, 
fraud, wildlife trafficking, human smuggling, human trafficking, intellectual property theft, 
weapons trafficking, and corruption. 52  Treasury has noted that a number of TCOs operate 
in the United States, and Mexican and Russian TCOs operating in the United States remain 
priority threats. 53  In addition, certain Africa- and Asia-based TCOs become more significant 
47. See FinCEN, Advisory to Financial Institutions on E-Mail Compromise Fraud Schemes, September 6, 2016; FinCEN, 
Updated Advisory on Email Compromise Fraud Schemes Targeting Vulnerable Business Practices, July 16, 2019.  To 
request immediate assistance in recovering BEC-stolen funds, covered institutions should file a complaint 
with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3), or contact the nearest 
United States Secret Service field office.
48. For a list of FinCEN COVID-19-related advisories, alerts, and notices, see FinCEN COVID-19-Related Advisories 
and Alerts.  FinCEN encourages covered institutions to use FinCEN-provided key terms and filing instructions 
when filing SARs for fraudulent activities, crimes, and cyber and ransomware attacks related to COVID-19.  
See FinCEN, Consolidated COVID-19 Suspicious Activity Report Key Terms and Filing Instructions, February 24, 
2021.
49. See Department of Justice, Justice Department Takes Action Against COVID-19 Fraud, March 26, 2021.
50. Director of National Intelligence, National Counterintelligence Strategy of the United States of America 2020-2022, 
January 7, 2020, at 8-9.
51. Transnational organized crime refers to “self-perpetuating associations of individuals who operate 
transnationally for the purpose of obtaining power, influence, monetary, or commercial gains, wholly or in 
part by illegal means, while protecting their activities through a pattern of corruption or violence or through 
a transnational organization structure and the exploitation of transnational commerce or communication 
mechanisms.”10 U.S.C. § 284(i)(6).
52. See The White House, Strategy to Combat Transnational Organized Crime, July 19, 2011.
53. See Treasury, National Money Laundering Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 17.

10
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
each year as TCOs worldwide continue to employ a variety of money laundering methods 
to avoid detection. 54  Malign state actors who provide TCOs safe haven or other support 
in return for financial or political gain, or assurances of their own security, enable TCOs’ 
malign activity, including foreign election interference, attempts to stoke social unrest, and 
other profit-driven criminal acts—most often perpetrated online—that undermine public 
confidence and threaten the social fabric of foreign nations.  Increasingly, these organizations 
turn to professional money laundering networks that receive a fee or commission for their 
laundering services, and often use their specialized expertise to launder proceeds generated 
by others, regardless of the predicate criminal activity. 55
F)	 Drug	Trafficking	Organization	 Activity
Illicit drugs continue to generate significant proceeds for DTOs.  The proceeds, which may 
be laundered in or through the United States, and the drugs themselves, contribute to a 
significant public health emergency. 56  Mexican DTOs’ distribution of fentanyl to the United 
States has increased, while direct shipments from China have decreased, though China 
remains a significant source of precursor chemicals. 57  Drug cartels in Mexico and Colombia 
also operate as sophisticated independent DTOs trafficking cocaine and other drugs to 
the United States. 58  DTOs rely more on professional money laundering networks in Asia 
(primarily China) that facilitate exchanges of Chinese and U.S. currency or serve as money 
brokers in trade-based money laundering (TBML) schemes. 59  There has been a substantial 
increase in complex schemes to launder proceeds from the sale of narcotics by facilitating 
the exchange of cash proceeds from Mexican DTOs to Chinese citizens residing in the United 
States, including the use of front companies or couriers to deposit cash derived from the sale 
of narcotics into the banking system. 60  These schemes allow DTOs to repatriate proceeds to 
Mexico and sidestep Chinese capital flight restrictions. 61
54. Id.
55. Id. at 12. 
56. Id.
57. See Drug Enforcement Administration, National Drug Threat Assessment, March 2, 2021, at 14.  See also 
FinCEN, Advisory to Financial Institutions on Illicit Financial Schemes and Methods Related to the Trafficking of 
Fentanyl and Other Synthetic Opioids, August 21, 2019 (guidance on reporting fentanyl and opioid trafficking).
58. See Treasury, National Money Laundering Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 17-19.
59. See Treasury, National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing, February 6, 2020, at 10.  For 
additional information on TBML schemes generally, see FinCEN, Update on U.S. Currency Restrictions in 
Mexico: Funnel Accounts and TBML, May 28, 2014; FinCEN, Advisory to Financial Institutions on Filing Suspicious 
Activity Reports regarding Trade-Based Money Laundering, February 18, 2010.
60. See, e.g., Department of Justice, Three Indicted for International Money Laundering Scheme Pairing Mexican Drug 
Traffickers and Chinese Nationals, October 18, 2019.
61. See Treasury, National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing, February 6, 2020, at 24.

11
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
In 2019, FinCEN issued an advisory related to the trafficking of fentanyl and other synthetic 
opioids, which contained an extensive discussion of typologies, case studies, and red flags. 62
G)	 Human	Trafficking	and	Human	Smuggling	
Financial activity from human trafficking 63 and human smuggling 64 activities can intersect 
with the formal financial system at any point during the trafficking or smuggling process.  
FinCEN, in collaboration with law enforcement agencies, nonprofit organizations, 
and members of the financial industry, issued two advisories identifying financial and 
behavioral red flags of human trafficking, as well as financial red flags associated with 
human smuggling. 65
As described in these advisories and other U.S. government reports, human trafficking and 
human smuggling networks use a variety of mechanisms to move illicit proceeds, ranging 
from cash smuggling by individual victims to sophisticated cash smuggling operations 
through professional money laundering networks and criminal organizations. 66  The illicit 
proceeds from human trafficking can include income associated with logistics, such as 
housing and transportation of victims, as well as earnings from the exploitation of victims.  
Human traffickers and smugglers have established shell companies to hide the true nature of 
a business.  Human traffickers and human smugglers receive payments in a variety of ways, 
such as funnel accounts and TBML schemes. 
H) Proliferation Financing
The principal threat of proliferation financing67 arises from proliferation support networks.  
These networks of individuals and entities, such as trade brokers and front companies, seek to 
exploit the U.S. financial system to move funds that will be used either: (1) to acquire weapons 
62. See FinCEN, Advisory to Financial Institutions on Illicit Financial Schemes and Methods Related to the Trafficking of 
Fentanyl and Other Synthetic Opioids, August 21, 2019.
63. Human trafficking crimes, which are defined in Title 18, Chapter 77, focus on the act of compelling or 
coercing a person’s labor, services, or commercial sex acts.  See Department of Justice, Human Trafficking 
Prosecution Unit.
64. Human smuggling involves illegally transporting people, who have consented to their travel, into the 
United States and, potentially, the subsequent harboring of those individuals in the United States.  While 
human trafficking and human smuggling are distinct crimes, individuals who are smuggled are vulnerable 
to becoming victims of human trafficking.  See FinCEN, Advisory Guidance Recognizing Activity that May be 
Associated with Human Smuggling and Human Trafficking, September 11, 2014; FinCEN, Supplemental Advisory on 
Identifying and Reporting Human Trafficking and Related Activity, October 15, 2020.
65. Id.
66. Id; Department of State, Trafficking in Persons, 20th Edition, June 2020.
67. Proliferation financing refers to the act of providing funds or financial services which are used, in whole 
or in part, for the manufacture, acquisition, possession, development, export, trans-shipment, brokering, 
transport, transfer, stockpiling, or use of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons and their means of delivery 
and related materials (including both technologies and dual use goods used for non-legitimate purposes), 
in contravention of national laws or, where applicable, international obligations. See Treasury, National 
Proliferation Financing Risk Assessment, December 20, 2018, at 3-4.

12
Anti-Money Laundering and  
Countering the Financing of Terrorism National Priorities
of mass destruction or delivery systems or their components; or (2) in the furtherance or 
development of state-sponsored weapons programs, including the evasion of United Nations 
or U.S. sanctions.  Global correspondent banking is a principal vulnerability and driver of 
proliferation financing risk within the United States due to its central role in processing U.S. 
dollar transactions, which comprise a substantial proportion of cross-border trade.68
Actors engaged in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have developed 
sophisticated and diverse strategies to finance their programs.  Covered institutions remain 
vulnerable to malign actors seeking to generate revenues and transfer funds in support 
of illicit conduct through gatekeepers, front or shell companies, exchange houses, or the 
illicit exploitation of international trade. 69  As described in multiple advisories issued by 
Treasury, Iran, North Korea, and Syria, in particular, have exploited vulnerabilities in global 
supply chains and maritime transportation to facilitate their weapons of mass destruction 
proliferation activities. 70  Covered institutions are encouraged to consult these advisories and 
FinCEN’s advisories with respect to jurisdictions with AML/CFT and counter-proliferation 
deficiencies for additional information regarding the risk of proliferation finance. 71
As a counter-measure to these potential risks, covered institutions must comply with 
sanctions programs and, as part of a risk-based AML program, should also be aware 
of economic and trade sanctions issued by the federal government, such as OFAC, the 
Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, and the Department of State’s 
Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation.  
For Further Information
Additional guidance, administrative rulings, and illicit finance information (including 
advisories and notices) can be found on FinCEN’s website at https://www.fincen.gov , which 
also contains information on how to register for FinCEN Updates .  Questions or comments 
regarding the contents of the Priorities should be addressed to the FinCEN Regulatory 
Support Section at frc@fincen.gov . 
68. Id. at 40-42.
69. See Treasury, Advisory on the Use of Exchange Houses and Trading Companies to Evade U.S. Economic Sanctions 
Against Iran, January 10, 2013; Treasury, Guidance to Address Illicit Shipping and Sanctions Evasion Practices, May 
14, 2020.  Recent FinCEN advisories on specific actors include: The Iranian Regime’s Illicit and Malign Activities 
and Attempts to Exploit the Financial System, October 11, 2018, and North Korea’s Use of the International Financial 
System, November 2, 2017.
70. See Treasury, Guidance to Address Illicit Shipping and Sanctions Evasion Practices, May 14, 2020; Treasury, 
Sanctions Risks Related to Petroleum Shipments involving Iran and Syria, March 25, 2019; Treasury, Sanctions Risks 
Related to North Korea’s Shipping Practices, February 23, 2018.
71. See FinCEN, Advisory on the Financial Action Task Force-Identified Jurisdictions with Anti-Money Laundering and 
Combating the Financing of Terrorism and Counter-Proliferation Deficiencies, March 11, 2021.