Skip to main content
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FINRA Utility Menu

 

 
 
 About Us
 

 
 Careers
 

 
 BrokerCheck
 

 
 Data
 

 
 Media Center
 

 
 For Firms
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For the Public
FINRA DATA
FINRA Data provides non-commercial use of data, specifically the ability to save data views and create and manage a Bond Watchlist.
Login

For Industry Professionals
FINPRO GATEWAY
Registered representatives can fulfill Continuing Education requirements, view their industry CRD record and perform other compliance tasks.
Login

For Member Firms
FINRA GATEWAY
Firm compliance professionals can access filings and requests, run reports and submit support tickets.
Login

For Case Participants
DR PORTAL
Arbitration and mediation case participants and FINRA neutrals can view case information and submit documents through this Dispute Resolution Portal.
Login

Need Help? | Check System Status
Log In to other FINRA systems

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 EXPLORE THIS SECTION
 

 
 
 
 FINRA Main Navigation

 

 
 
 
 FINRA Manual
 
 
 Updates
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Interpreting the Rules
 
 
 Notices
 

 
 Guidance
 

 
 Frequently Asked Questions
 

 
 Key Topics
 

 
 Interpretive Questions
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The Rulemaking Process
 
 
 Rule Filings
 

 
 Rule Filing Status Report
 

 
 Requests for Comments
 

 
 Regulatory Policy Agenda
 

 
 Rulebook Consolidation
 

 
 Retrospective Rule Review
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Enforcement
 
 
 Disciplinary Actions Online
 

 
 Monthly Disciplinary Actions
 

 
 Sanction Guidelines
 

 
 Individuals Barred by FINRA
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Adjudication & Decisions
 
 
 National Adjudicatory Council (NAC)
 

 
 Office of Hearing Officers (OHO)
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Regulatory Notice 18-19

 

 

 
 
 
 
 FINRA Amends Rule 3310 to Conform to FinCEN's Final Rule on Customer Due Diligence Requirements for Financial Institutions

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Published Date:

 May 03, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Notice
 
 
 Comments
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Regulatory Notice
 
 

 
 
 Notice Type
 
 Rule Amendment
 
 
 Referenced Rules & Notices
 
 Bank Secrecy Act
 FINRA Rule 3310
 Regulatory Notice 17-40
 
 

 
 
 Suggested Routing
 
 Compliance
 Legal
 Operations
 Senior Management
 
 
 Key Topics
 
 Anti-Money Laundering
 Compliance Programs
 
 

 Summary

 FINRA has filed for immediate effectiveness amendments to FINRA Rule 3310 (Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Program) to reflect the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's (FinCEN) adoption of a final rule on Customer Due Diligence Requirements for Financial Institutions (CDD Rule).1 The implementation date is May 11, 2018. This implementation date aligns with the compliance date for FinCEN's CDD Rule.

 The text of the rule is set forth in Attachment A.

 Questions concerning this Notice should be directed to:

 •   Michael Rufino, Executive Vice President, Head of Member Regulation – Sales Practice, at (202) 728-8381 or by email at [email protected];

 •   Victoria Crane, Associate General Counsel, Office of General Counsel (OGC), at (202) 728-8104 or by email at [email protected]; or

 •   Julia Bogolin, Counsel, OGC, at (202) 728-8111 or by email at [email protected].

 Background & Discussion

 On May 11, 2016, FinCEN, the bureau of the Department of the Treasury responsible for administering the Bank Secrecy Act2 (BSA) and its implementing regulations, issued the CDD Rule3 to clarify and strengthen customer due diligence for covered financial institutions,4 including broker-dealers. In its CDD Rule, FinCEN identifies four components of customer due diligence: (1) customer identification and verification; (2) beneficial ownership identification and verification; (3) understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships; and (4) ongoing monitoring for reporting suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, maintaining and updating customer information.5 As the first component is already an AML program requirement, the CDD Rule focuses on the other three components.

 Specifically, the CDD Rule focuses particularly on the second component by adding a new requirement that covered financial institutions identify and verify the identity of the beneficial owners of all legal entity customers at the time a new account is opened, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions. The CDD Rule also addresses the third and fourth components by amending the existing AML program rules for covered financial institutions to explicitly require these components to be included in AML programs as a new "fifth pillar."

 On November 21, 2017, FINRA published Regulatory Notice 17-40 to provide guidance to member firms regarding their obligations under FINRA Rule 3310 in light of the adoption of FinCEN's CDD Rule.6 In addition, the Notice summarized the CDD Rule's impact on member firms, including the ongoing customer due diligence requirement, or "fifth pillar," required for member firms' AML programs.

 The recently filed amendments to FINRA Rule 3310 incorporate into the rule this ongoing customer due diligence requirement to conform the rule to the CDD Rule and aid member firms in complying with the CDD Rule's requirements. Specifically, FINRA Rule 3310(f) requires member firms' AML programs to, at a minimum include appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to: (1) understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and (2) conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information.

 As stated in the CDD Rule, these provisions are not new and merely codify existing expectations for firms to adequately identify and report suspicious transactions as required under the BSA, and encapsulate practices generally already undertaken by securities firms to know and understand their customers.

 Member firms should ensure that their AML programs are updated, as necessary, to comply with the CDD Rule by May 11, 2018.

 1. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 83154 (May 2, 2018) (Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness File No. SR-FINRA-2018-016).

 2. 31 U.S.C. 5311, et seq.

 3. FinCEN Customer Due Diligence Requirements for Financial Institutions; CDD Rule, 81 FR 29397 (May 11, 2016) (CDD Rule Release); 82 FR 45182 (September 28, 2017) (making technical correcting amendments to the final CDD Rule published on May 11, 2016). FinCEN is authorized to impose AML program requirements on financial institutions and to require financial institutions to maintain procedures to ensure compliance with the BSA and associated regulations. 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(2) and (a)(2). The CDD Rule is the result of the rulemaking process FinCEN initiated in March 2012. See 77 FR 13046 (March 5, 2012) (Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking) and 79 FR 45151 (Aug. 4, 2014) (Notice of Proposed Rulemaking).

 4. See 31 C.F.R. 1010.230(f) (defining "covered financial institution").

 5. See CDD Rule Release at 29398.

 6. See Regulatory Notice 17-40 (November 2017).

 ATTACHMENT A

 Below is the text of the amended rule text. New language is underlined; deletions are in brackets.

 * * * * *

 3000. SUPERVISION AND RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO ASSOCIATED PERSONS

 * * * * *

 3300. ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING

 3310. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Program
 
 Each member shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to achieve and monitor the member's compliance with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311, et seq.), and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury. Each member's anti-money laundering program must be approved, in writing, by a member of senior management. The anti-money laundering programs required by this Rule shall, at a minimum,
 
 (a) through (c) No change.
 

 
 (d) Designate and identify to FINRA (by name, title, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone number, and facsimile number) an individual or individuals responsible for implementing and monitoring the day-to-day operations and internal controls of the program (such individual or individuals must be an associated person of the member) and provide prompt notification to FINRA regarding any change in such designation(s); [and]
 

 
 (e) Provide ongoing training for appropriate personnel;[.] and
 

 
 (f) Include appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
 
 (i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
 

 
 (ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of paragraph (f)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.230(e)).
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Related Notices

 
 
 
 
 FINRA Rule 3310 - Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Program

 Anti-Money Laundering

 Bank Secrecy Act

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 DOWNLOAD AS pdf

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Notice Suggested Routing

 
 Compliance

 Legal

 Operations

 Senior Management

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Notice Key Topics

 
 Anti-Money Laundering

 Compliance Programs

 

 

 

 

 
 Referenced Rules & Notices

 
 
 
 
 Bank Secrecy Act

 FINRA Rule 3310

 Regulatory Notice 17-40

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 FINRA Utility Menu

 

 
 
 About Us
 

 
 Careers
 

 
 BrokerCheck
 

 
 Data
 

 
 Media Center
 

 
 For Firms
 

 
 

 

 
 FINRA Main Navigation

 

 
 
 Rules & Guidance
 

 
 Registration, Exams & CE
 

 
 Events & Training
 

 
 Filing & Reporting
 

 
 Compliance Tools
 

 
 For Investors
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General Inquiries
301-590-6500

Securities Helpline for Seniors®
844-574-3577 (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm ET)

File a Regulatory Tip
To report on abuse or fraud in the industry

Arbitration & Mediation
FINRA operates the largest securities dispute resolution forum in the United States

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 File an Investor Complaint
File a complaint about fraud or unfair practices.

Small Firm Help Line
833-26-FINRA (Mon-Fri 9am-6pm ET)

Office of the Ombuds
Report a concern about FINRA at 888-700-0028

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Footer Legal Links

 

 
 
 Site Map
 

 
 Privacy Policy
 

 
 Terms of Use
 

 
 Translate
 

 
 Contact Us
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 © 2026 FINRA. All Rights Reserved.
FINRA is a Registered Trademark of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.